# NAME

Tcl_CreateCommand - implement new commands in C

# SYNOPSIS

**#include \<tcl.h\>**

Tcl_Command **Tcl_CreateCommand**(*interp, cmdName, proc, clientData,
deleteProc*)

# ARGUMENTS

Interpreter in which to create new command.

Name of command.

Implementation of new command: *proc* will be called whenever *cmdName*
is invoked as a command.

Arbitrary one-word value to pass to *proc* and *deleteProc*.

Procedure to call before *cmdName* is deleted from the interpreter;
allows for command-specific cleanup. If NULL, then no procedure is
called before the command is deleted.

# DESCRIPTION

**Tcl_CreateCommand** defines a new command in *interp* and associates
it with procedure *proc* such that whenever *cmdName* is invoked as a
Tcl command (via a call to **Tcl_Eval**) the Tcl interpreter will call
*proc* to process the command. It differs from **Tcl_CreateObjCommand**
in that a new string-based command is defined; that is, a command
procedure is defined that takes an array of argument strings instead of
values. The value-based command procedures registered by
**Tcl_CreateObjCommand** can execute significantly faster than the
string-based command procedures defined by **Tcl_CreateCommand**. This
is because they take Tcl values as arguments and those values can retain
an internal representation that can be manipulated more efficiently.
Also, Tcl\'s interpreter now uses values internally. In order to invoke
a string-based command procedure registered by **Tcl_CreateCommand**, it
must generate and fetch a string representation from each argument value
before the call. New commands should be defined using
**Tcl_CreateObjCommand**. We support **Tcl_CreateCommand** for backwards
compatibility.

The procedures **Tcl_DeleteCommand**, **Tcl_GetCommandInfo**, and
**Tcl_SetCommandInfo** are used in conjunction with
**Tcl_CreateCommand**.

**Tcl_CreateCommand** will delete an existing command *cmdName*, if one
is already associated with the interpreter. It returns a token that may
be used to refer to the command in subsequent calls to
**Tcl_GetCommandName**. If *cmdName* contains any **::** namespace
qualifiers, then the command is added to the specified namespace;
otherwise the command is added to the global namespace. If
**Tcl_CreateCommand** is called for an interpreter that is in the
process of being deleted, then it does not create a new command and it
returns NULL. *Proc* should have arguments and result that match the
type **Tcl_CmdProc**:

    typedef int Tcl_CmdProc(
            ClientData clientData,
            Tcl_Interp *interp,
            int argc,
            const char *argv[]);

When *proc* is invoked the *clientData* and *interp* parameters will be
copies of the *clientData* and *interp* arguments given to
**Tcl_CreateCommand**. Typically, *clientData* points to an
application-specific data structure that describes what to do when the
command procedure is invoked. *Argc* and *argv* describe the arguments
to the command, *argc* giving the number of arguments (including the
command name) and *argv* giving the values of the arguments as strings.
The *argv* array will contain *argc*+1 values; the first *argc* values
point to the argument strings, and the last value is NULL. Note that the
argument strings should not be modified as they may point to constant
strings or may be shared with other parts of the interpreter.

Note that the argument strings are encoded in normalized UTF-8 since
version 8.1 of Tcl.

*Proc* must return an integer code that is expected to be one of
**TCL_OK**, **TCL_ERROR**, **TCL_RETURN**, **TCL_BREAK**, or
**TCL_CONTINUE**. See the Tcl overview man page for details on what
these codes mean. Most normal commands will only return **TCL_OK** or
**TCL_ERROR**. In addition, *proc* must set the interpreter result; in
the case of a **TCL_OK** return code this gives the result of the
command, and in the case of **TCL_ERROR** it gives an error message. The
**Tcl_SetResult** procedure provides an easy interface for setting the
return value; for complete details on how the interpreter result field
is managed, see the **Tcl_Interp** man page. Before invoking a command
procedure, **Tcl_Eval** sets the interpreter result to point to an empty
string, so simple commands can return an empty result by doing nothing
at all.

The contents of the *argv* array belong to Tcl and are not guaranteed to
persist once *proc* returns: *proc* should not modify them, nor should
it set the interpreter result to point anywhere within the *argv*
values. Call **Tcl_SetResult** with status **TCL_VOLATILE** if you want
to return something from the *argv* array.

*DeleteProc* will be invoked when (if) *cmdName* is deleted. This can
occur through a call to **Tcl_DeleteCommand** or **Tcl_DeleteInterp**,
or by replacing *cmdName* in another call to **Tcl_CreateCommand**.
*DeleteProc* is invoked before the command is deleted, and gives the
application an opportunity to release any structures associated with the
command. *DeleteProc* should have arguments and result that match the
type **Tcl_CmdDeleteProc**:

    typedef void Tcl_CmdDeleteProc(
            ClientData clientData);

The *clientData* argument will be the same as the *clientData* argument
passed to **Tcl_CreateCommand**.

# SEE ALSO

Tcl_CreateObjCommand, Tcl_DeleteCommand, Tcl_GetCommandInfo,
Tcl_SetCommandInfo, Tcl_GetCommandName, Tcl_SetObjResult

# KEYWORDS

bind, command, create, delete, interpreter, namespace

<!---
Copyright (c) 1989-1993 The Regents of the University of California
Copyright (c) 1994-1997 Sun Microsystems, Inc
-->

