# NAME

Tcl_GetStdChannel, Tcl_SetStdChannel - procedures for retrieving and
replacing the standard channels

# SYNOPSIS

**#include \<tcl.h\>**

Tcl_Channel **Tcl_GetStdChannel**(*type*)

**Tcl_SetStdChannel**(*channel, type*)

# ARGUMENTS

The identifier for the standard channel to retrieve or modify. Must be
one of **TCL_STDIN**, **TCL_STDOUT**, or **TCL_STDERR**.

The channel to use as the new value for the specified standard channel.

# DESCRIPTION

Tcl defines three special channels that are used by various I/O related
commands if no other channels are specified. The standard input channel
has a channel name of **stdin** and is used by **read** and **gets**.
The standard output channel is named **stdout** and is used by **puts**.
The standard error channel is named **stderr** and is used for reporting
errors. In addition, the standard channels are inherited by any child
processes created using **exec** or **open** in the absence of any other
redirections.

The standard channels are actually aliases for other normal channels.
The current channel associated with a standard channel can be retrieved
by calling **Tcl_GetStdChannel** with one of **TCL_STDIN**,
**TCL_STDOUT**, or **TCL_STDERR** as the *type*. The return value will
be a valid channel, or NULL.

A new channel can be set for the standard channel specified by *type* by
calling **Tcl_SetStdChannel** with a new channel or NULL in the
*channel* argument. If the specified channel is closed by a later call
to **Tcl_Close**, then the corresponding standard channel will
automatically be set to NULL.

If a non-NULL value for *channel* is passed to **Tcl_SetStdChannel**,
then that same value should be passed to **Tcl_RegisterChannel**, like
so:

    Tcl_RegisterChannel(NULL, channel);

This is a workaround for a misfeature in **Tcl_SetStdChannel** that it
fails to do some reference counting housekeeping. This misfeature cannot
be corrected without contradicting the assumptions of some existing code
that calls **Tcl_SetStdChannel**.

If **Tcl_GetStdChannel** is called before **Tcl_SetStdChannel**, Tcl
will construct a new channel to wrap the appropriate platform-specific
standard file handle. If **Tcl_SetStdChannel** is called before
**Tcl_GetStdChannel**, then the default channel will not be created.

If one of the standard channels is set to NULL, either by calling
**Tcl_SetStdChannel** with a NULL *channel* argument, or by calling
**Tcl_Close** on the channel, then the next call to
**Tcl_CreateChannel** will automatically set the standard channel with
the newly created channel. If more than one standard channel is NULL,
then the standard channels will be assigned starting with standard
input, followed by standard output, with standard error being last.

See **Tcl_StandardChannels** for a general treatise about standard
channels and the behavior of the Tcl library with regard to them.

# SEE ALSO

Tcl_Close(3), Tcl_CreateChannel(3), Tcl_Main(3), tclsh(1)

# KEYWORDS

standard channel, standard input, standard output, standard error

<!---
Copyright (c) 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc
-->

