# NAME

busy - confine pointer events to a window sub-tree

# SYNOPSIS

**tk busy** *window *?*options*?

**tk busy hold** *window *?*options*?

**tk busy configure ***window* ?*option value*?\...

**tk busy forget** *window *?*window *?\...

**tk busy current** ?*pattern*?

**tk busy status ***window*

# DESCRIPTION

The **tk busy** command provides a simple means to block pointer events
from Tk widgets, while overriding the widget\'s cursor with a
configurable busy cursor. Note this command does not prevent keyboard
events from being sent to the widgets made busy.

# INTRODUCTION

There are many times in applications where you want to temporarily
restrict what actions the user can take. For example, an application
could have a button that when pressed causes some processing to occur.
However, while the application is busy processing, you probably don\'t
want the user to be able to click the button again. You may also want
restrict the user from other tasks such as clicking a button.

The **tk busy** command lets you make Tk widgets busy. This means that
user interactions such as button clicks, moving the mouse, typing at the
keyboard, etc.â€‡are ignored by the widget. You can set a special cursor
(like a watch) that overrides the widget\'s normal cursor, providing
feedback that the application (widget) is temporarily busy.

When a widget is made busy, the widget and all of its descendants will
ignore pointer events. It\'s easy to make an entire panel of widgets
busy. You can simply make the toplevel widget (such as busy. This is
easier and far much more efficient than recursively traversing the
widget hierarchy, disabling each widget and re-configuring its cursor.

Often, the **tk busy** command can be used instead of Tk\'s **grab**
command. Unlike **grab** which restricts all user interactions to one
widget, with the **tk busy** command you can have more than one widget
active (for example, a dialog and a button).

## EXAMPLE

You can make several widgets busy by simply making its ancestor widget
busy using the **hold** operation.

    frame .top
    button .top.button; canvas .top.canvas
    pack .top.button .top.canvas
    pack .top
    # . . .
    tk busy hold .top
    update

All the widgets within **.top** (including **.top**) are now busy. Using
**update** insures that **tk busy** command will take effect before any
other user events can occur.

When the application is no longer busy processing, you can allow user
interactions again and free any resources it allocated by the **forget**
operation.

    tk busy forget .top

The busy window has a configurable cursor. You can change the busy
cursor using the **configure** operation.

    tk busy configure .top -cursor "watch"

Destroying the widget will also clean up any resources allocated by the
**tk** busy command.

# OPERATIONS

The following operations are available for the **tk busy** command:

**tk busy ***window* ?*option value*?\...

:   Shortcut for **tk busy hold** command.

**tk busy hold ***window* ?*option value*?\...

:   Makes the specified *window* (and its descendants in the Tk window
    hierarchy) appear busy. *Window* must be a valid path name of a Tk
    widget. A transparent window is put in front of the specified
    window. This transparent window is mapped the next time idle tasks
    are processed, and the specified window and its descendants will be
    blocked from user interactions. Normally **update** should be called
    immediately afterward to insure that the hold operation is in effect
    before the application starts its processing. The following
    configuration options are valid:

    **-cursor ***cursorName*

    :   Specifies the cursor to be displayed when the widget is made
        busy. *CursorName* can be in any form accepted by
        **Tk_GetCursor**. The default cursor is **wait** on Windows and
        **watch** on other platforms.

**tk busy cget ***window* *option*

:   Queries the **tk busy** command configuration options for *window*.
    *Window* must be the path name of a widget previously made busy by
    the **hold** operation. The command returns the present value of the
    specified *option*. *Option* may have any of the values accepted by
    the **hold** operation.

**tk busy configure ***window* ?*option value*?\...

:   Queries or modifies the **tk busy** command configuration options
    for *window*. *Window* must be the path name of a widget previously
    made busy by the **hold** operation. If no options are specified, a
    list describing all of the available options for *window* (see
    **Tk_ConfigureInfo** for information on the format of this list) is
    returned. If *option* is specified with no *value*, then the command
    returns a list describing the one named option (this list will be
    identical to the corresponding sublist of the value returned if no
    *option* is specified). If one or more *option-value* pairs are
    specified, then the command modifies the given widget option(s) to
    have the given value(s); in this case the command returns the empty
    string. *Option* may have any of the values accepted by the **hold**
    operation.

    Please note that the option database is referenced through *window*.
    For example, if the widget **.frame** is to be made busy, the busy
    cursor can be specified for it by either **option** command:

        option add *frame.busyCursor gumby
        option add *Frame.BusyCursor gumby

**tk busy forget ***window* ?*window*?\...

:   Releases resources allocated by the **tk busy** command for
    *window*, including the transparent window. User events will again
    be received by *window*. Resources are also released when *window*
    is destroyed. *Window* must be the name of a widget specified in the
    **hold** operation, otherwise an error is reported.

**tk busy current **?*pattern*?

:   Returns the pathnames of all widgets that are currently busy. If a
    *pattern* is given, only the path names of busy widgets matching
    *pattern* are returned.

**tk busy status ***window*

:   Returns the status of a widget *window*. If *window* presently can
    not receive user interactions, **1** is returned, otherwise **0**.

# EVENT HANDLING

## BINDINGS

The event blocking feature is implemented by creating and mapping a
transparent window that completely covers the widget. When the busy
window is mapped, it invisibly shields the widget and its hierarchy from
all events that may be sent. Like Tk widgets, busy windows have widget
names in the Tk window hierarchy. This means that you can use the
**bind** command, to handle events in the busy window.

    tk busy hold .frame.canvas
    bind .frame.canvas_Busy <Enter> { ... }

Normally the busy window is a sibling of the widget. The name of the
busy window is where *widget* is the name of the widget to be made busy.
In the previous example, the pathname of the busy window is The
exception is when the widget is a toplevel widget (such as where the
busy window can\'t be made a sibling. The busy window is then a child of
the widget named where *widget* is the name of the toplevel widget. In
the following example, the pathname of the busy window is

    tk busy hold .
    bind ._Busy <Enter> { ... }

## ENTER/LEAVE EVENTS

Mapping and unmapping busy windows generates Enter/Leave events for all
widgets they cover. Please note this if you are tracking Enter/Leave
events in widgets.

## KEYBOARD EVENTS

When a widget is made busy, the widget is prevented from gaining the
keyboard focus by a user clicking on it by the busy window. But if the
widget already had focus, it still may receive keyboard events. The
widget can also still receive focus through keyboard traversal. To
prevent this, you must move focus to another window and make sure the
focus can not go back to the widgets made busy (e.g. but restricting
focus to a cancel button).

    pack [frame .frame]
    pack [text .frame.text]
    tk busy hold .frame
    pack [button .cancel -text "Cancel" -command exit]
    focus .cancel
    bind .cancel <Tab> {break}
    bind .cancel <Shift-Tab> {break}
    update

The above example moves the focus from .frame immediately after invoking
the **hold** so that no keyboard events will be sent to **.frame** or
any of its descendants. It also makes sure it\'s not possible to leave
button **.cancel** using the keyboard.

# PORTABILITY

Note that the **tk busy** command does not currently have any effect on
OSX when Tk is built using Aqua support.

# SEE ALSO

grab(n)

# KEYWORDS

busy, keyboard events, pointer events, window

<!---
Copyright (c) 1993-1998 Lucent Technologies, Inc
Copyright (c) 2008 Jos Decoste
-->

