# NAME

Tk_SetAppName - Set the name of an application for \'send\' commands

# SYNOPSIS

**#include \<tk.h\>**

const char \* **Tk_SetAppName**(*tkwin, name*)

# ARGUMENTS

Token for window in application. Used only to select a particular
application.

Name under which to register the application.

# DESCRIPTION

**Tk_SetAppName** associates a name with a given application and records
that association on the display containing with the application\'s main
window. After this procedure has been invoked, other applications on the
display will be able to use the **send** command to invoke operations in
the application. If *name* is already in use by some other application
on the display, then a new name will be generated by appending to
*name*; if this name is also in use, the number will be incremented
until an unused name is found. The return value from the procedure is a
pointer to the name actually used.

If the application already has a name when **Tk_SetAppName** is called,
then the new name replaces the old name.

**Tk_SetAppName** also adds a **send** command to the application\'s
interpreter, which can be used to send commands from this application to
others on any of the displays where the application has windows.

The application\'s name registration persists until the interpreter is
deleted or the **send** command is deleted from *interp*, at which point
the name is automatically unregistered and the application becomes
inaccessible via **send**. The application can be made accessible again
by calling **Tk_SetAppName**.

**Tk_SetAppName** is called automatically by **Tk_Init**, so
applications do not normally need to call it explicitly.

The command **tk appname** provides Tcl-level access to the
functionality of **Tk_SetAppName**.

# KEYWORDS

application, name, register, send command
