# NAME

Tcl_CreateFileHandler, Tcl_DeleteFileHandler - associate procedure
callbacks with files or devices (Unix only)

# SYNOPSIS

**#include \<tcl.h\>**

**Tcl_CreateFileHandler**(*fd, mask, proc, clientData*)

**Tcl_DeleteFileHandler**(*fd*)

# ARGUMENTS

Unix file descriptor for an open file or device.

Conditions under which *proc* should be called: OR-ed combination of
**TCL_READABLE**, **TCL_WRITABLE**, and **TCL_EXCEPTION**. May be set to
0 to temporarily disable a handler.

Procedure to invoke whenever the file or device indicated by *file*
meets the conditions specified by *mask*.

Arbitrary one-word value to pass to *proc*.

# DESCRIPTION

**Tcl_CreateFileHandler** arranges for *proc* to be invoked in the
future whenever I/O becomes possible on a file or an exceptional
condition exists for the file. The file is indicated by *fd*, and the
conditions of interest are indicated by *mask*. For example, if *mask*
is **TCL_READABLE**, *proc* will be called when the file is readable.
The callback to *proc* is made by **Tcl_DoOneEvent**, so
**Tcl_CreateFileHandler** is only useful in programs that dispatch
events through **Tcl_DoOneEvent** or through Tcl commands such as
**vwait**.

*Proc* should have arguments and result that match the type
**Tcl_FileProc**:

    typedef void Tcl_FileProc(
            ClientData clientData,
            int mask);

The *clientData* parameter to *proc* is a copy of the *clientData*
argument given to **Tcl_CreateFileHandler** when the callback was
created. Typically, *clientData* points to a data structure containing
application-specific information about the file. *Mask* is an integer
mask indicating which of the requested conditions actually exists for
the file; it will contain a subset of the bits in the *mask* argument to
**Tcl_CreateFileHandler**.

There may exist only one handler for a given file at a given time. If
**Tcl_CreateFileHandler** is called when a handler already exists for
*fd*, then the new callback replaces the information that was previously
recorded.

**Tcl_DeleteFileHandler** may be called to delete the file handler for
*fd*; if no handler exists for the file given by *fd* then the procedure
has no effect.

The purpose of file handlers is to enable an application to respond to
events while waiting for files to become ready for I/O. For this to work
correctly, the application may need to use non-blocking I/O operations
on the files for which handlers are declared. Otherwise the application
may block if it reads or writes too much data; while waiting for the I/O
to complete the application will not be able to service other events.
Use **Tcl_SetChannelOption** with **-blocking** to set the channel into
blocking or nonblocking mode as required.

Note that these interfaces are only supported by the Unix implementation
of the Tcl notifier.

# SEE ALSO

fileevent(n), Tcl_CreateTimerHandler(3), Tcl_DoWhenIdle(3)

# KEYWORDS

callback, file, handler
