# NAME

Tcl_CreateInterp, Tcl_DeleteInterp, Tcl_InterpActive,
Tcl_InterpDeleted - create and delete Tcl command interpreters

# SYNOPSIS

**#include \<tcl.h\>**

Tcl_Interp \* **Tcl_CreateInterp**()

**Tcl_DeleteInterp**(*interp*)

int **Tcl_InterpDeleted**(*interp*)

int **Tcl_InterpActive**(*interp*)

# ARGUMENTS

Token for interpreter to be destroyed or queried.

# DESCRIPTION

**Tcl_CreateInterp** creates a new interpreter structure and returns a
token for it. The token is required in calls to most other Tcl
procedures, such as **Tcl_CreateCommand**, **Tcl_Eval**, and
**Tcl_DeleteInterp**. The token returned by **Tcl_CreateInterp** may
only be passed to Tcl routines called from the same thread as the
original **Tcl_CreateInterp** call. It is not safe for multiple threads
to pass the same token to Tcl\'s routines. The new interpreter is
initialized with the built-in Tcl commands and with standard variables
like **tcl_platform** and **env**. To bind in additional commands, call
**Tcl_CreateCommand**, and to create additional variables, call
**Tcl_SetVar**.

**Tcl_DeleteInterp** marks an interpreter as deleted; the interpreter
will eventually be deleted when all calls to **Tcl_Preserve** for it
have been matched by calls to **Tcl_Release**. At that time, all of the
resources associated with it, including variables, procedures, and
application-specific command bindings, will be deleted. After
**Tcl_DeleteInterp** returns any attempt to use **Tcl_Eval** on the
interpreter will fail and return **TCL_ERROR**. After the call to
**Tcl_DeleteInterp** it is safe to examine the interpreter\'s result,
query or set the values of variables, define, undefine or retrieve
procedures, and examine the runtime evaluation stack. See below, in the
section **INTERPRETERS AND MEMORY MANAGEMENT** for details.

**Tcl_InterpDeleted** returns nonzero if **Tcl_DeleteInterp** was called
with *interp* as its argument; this indicates that the interpreter will
eventually be deleted, when the last call to **Tcl_Preserve** for it is
matched by a call to **Tcl_Release**. If nonzero is returned, further
calls to **Tcl_Eval** in this interpreter will return **TCL_ERROR**.

**Tcl_InterpDeleted** is useful in deletion callbacks to distinguish
between when only the memory the callback is responsible for is being
deleted and when the whole interpreter is being deleted. In the former
case the callback may recreate the data being deleted, but this would
lead to an infinite loop if the interpreter were being deleted.

**Tcl_InterpActive** is useful for determining whether there is any
execution of scripts ongoing in an interpreter, which is a useful piece
of information when Tcl is embedded in a garbage-collected environment
and it becomes necessary to determine whether the interpreter is a
candidate for deletion. The function returns a true value if the
interpreter has at least one active execution running inside it, and a
false value otherwise.

# INTERPRETERS AND MEMORY MANAGEMENT

**Tcl_DeleteInterp** can be called at any time on an interpreter that
may be used by nested evaluations and C code in various extensions. Tcl
implements a simple mechanism that allows callers to use interpreters
without worrying about the interpreter being deleted in a nested call,
and without requiring special code to protect the interpreter, in most
cases. This mechanism ensures that nested uses of an interpreter can
safely continue using it even after **Tcl_DeleteInterp** is called.

The mechanism relies on matching up calls to **Tcl_Preserve** with calls
to **Tcl_Release**. If **Tcl_DeleteInterp** has been called, only when
the last call to **Tcl_Preserve** is matched by a call to
**Tcl_Release**, will the interpreter be freed. See the manual entry for
**Tcl_Preserve** for a description of these functions.

The rules for when the user of an interpreter must call **Tcl_Preserve**
and **Tcl_Release** are simple:

**Interpreters Passed As Arguments**

:   Functions that are passed an interpreter as an argument can safely
    use the interpreter without any special protection. Thus, when you
    write an extension consisting of new Tcl commands, no special code
    is needed to protect interpreters received as arguments. This covers
    the majority of all uses.

**Interpreter Creation And Deletion**

:   When a new interpreter is created and used in a call to
    **Tcl_Eval**, **Tcl_VarEval**, **Tcl_GlobalEval**, **Tcl_SetVar**,
    or **Tcl_GetVar**, a pair of calls to **Tcl_Preserve** and
    **Tcl_Release** should be wrapped around all uses of the
    interpreter. Remember that it is unsafe to use the interpreter once
    **Tcl_Release** has been called. To ensure that the interpreter is
    properly deleted when it is no longer needed, call
    **Tcl_InterpDeleted** to test if some other code already called
    **Tcl_DeleteInterp**; if not, call **Tcl_DeleteInterp** before
    calling **Tcl_Release** in your own code.

**Retrieving An Interpreter From A Data Structure**

:   When an interpreter is retrieved from a data structure (e.g. the
    client data of a callback) for use in one of the evaluation
    functions (**Tcl_Eval**, **Tcl_VarEval**, **Tcl_GlobalEval**,
    **Tcl_EvalObjv**, etc.) or variable access functions
    (**Tcl_SetVar**, **Tcl_GetVar**, **Tcl_SetVar2Ex**, etc.), a pair of
    calls to **Tcl_Preserve** and **Tcl_Release** should be wrapped
    around all uses of the interpreter; it is unsafe to reuse the
    interpreter once **Tcl_Release** has been called. If an interpreter
    is stored inside a callback data structure, an appropriate deletion
    cleanup mechanism should be set up by the code that creates the data
    structure so that the interpreter is removed from the data structure
    (e.g. by setting the field to NULL) when the interpreter is deleted.
    Otherwise, you may be using an interpreter that has been freed and
    whose memory may already have been reused.

All uses of interpreters in Tcl and Tk have already been protected.
Extension writers should ensure that their code also properly protects
any additional interpreters used, as described above.

Note that the protection mechanisms do not work well with conventional
garbage collection systems. When in such a managed environment,
**Tcl_InterpActive** should be used to determine when an interpreter is
a candidate for deletion due to inactivity.

# SEE ALSO

Tcl_Preserve(3), Tcl_Release(3)

# KEYWORDS

command, create, delete, interpreter
