# NAME

load - Load machine code and initialize new commands

# SYNOPSIS

**load** ?**-global**? ?**-lazy**? ?**\--**? *fileName*\
**load** ?**-global**? ?**-lazy**? ?**\--**? *fileName prefix*\
**load** ?**-global**? ?**-lazy**? ?**\--**? *fileName prefix interp*

# DESCRIPTION

This command loads binary code from a file into the application\'s
address space and calls an initialization procedure in the library to
incorporate it into an interpreter. *fileName* is the name of the file
containing the code; its exact form varies from system to system but on
most systems it is a shared library, such as a **.so** file under
Solaris or a DLL under Windows. *prefix* is used to compute the name of
an initialization procedure. *interp* is the path name of the
interpreter into which to load the library (see the **interp** manual
entry for details); if *interp* is omitted, it defaults to the
interpreter in which the **load** command was invoked.

Once the file has been loaded into the application\'s address space, one
of two initialization procedures will be invoked in the new code.
Typically the initialization procedure will add new commands to a Tcl
interpreter. The name of the initialization procedure is determined by
*prefix* and whether or not the target interpreter is a safe one. For
normal interpreters the name of the initialization procedure will have
the form *pfx***\_Init**, where *pfx* is the same as *prefix* except
that the first letter is converted to upper case and all other letters
are converted to lower case. For example, if *prefix* is **foo** or
**FOo**, the initialization procedure\'s name will be **Foo_Init**.

If the target interpreter is a safe interpreter, then the name of the
initialization procedure will be *pfx***\_SafeInit** instead of
*pfx***\_Init**. The *pfx***\_SafeInit** function should be written
carefully, so that it initializes the safe interpreter only with partial
functionality provided by the library that is safe for use by untrusted
code. For more information on Safe-Tcl, see the **safe** manual entry.

The initialization procedure must match the following prototype:

    typedef int Tcl_PackageInitProc(
            Tcl_Interp *interp);

The *interp* argument identifies the interpreter in which the library is
to be loaded. The initialization procedure must return **TCL_OK** or
**TCL_ERROR** to indicate whether or not it completed successfully; in
the event of an error it should set the interpreter\'s result to point
to an error message. The result of the **load** command will be the
result returned by the initialization procedure.

The actual loading of a file will only be done once for each *fileName*
in an application. If a given *fileName* is loaded into multiple
interpreters, then the first **load** will load the code and call the
initialization procedure; subsequent **load**s will call the
initialization procedure without loading the code again. For Tcl
versions lower than 8.5, it is not possible to unload or reload a
library. From version 8.5 however, the **unload** command allows the
unloading of libraries loaded with **load**, for libraries that are
aware of the Tcl\'s unloading mechanism.

The **load** command also supports libraries that are statically linked
with the application, if those libraries have been registered by calling
the **Tcl_StaticPackage** procedure. If *fileName* is an empty string,
then *prefix* must be specified.

If *prefix* is omitted or specified as an empty string, Tcl tries to
guess the prefix. This may be done differently on different platforms.
The default guess, which is used on most UNIX platforms, is to take the
last element of *fileName*, strip off the first three characters if they
are **lib**, and use any following alphabetic and underline characters,
converted to titlecase as the prefix. For example, the command **load
libxyz4.2.so** uses the prefix **Xyz** and the command **load
bin/last.so {}** uses the prefix **Last**.

If *fileName* is an empty string, then *prefix* must be specified. The
**load** command first searches for a statically loaded library (one
that has been registered by calling the **Tcl_StaticPackage** procedure)
by that name; if one is found, it is used. Otherwise, the **load**
command searches for a dynamically loaded library by that name, and uses
it if it is found. If several different files have been **load**ed with
different versions of the library, Tcl picks the file that was loaded
first.

If **-global** is specified preceding the filename, all symbols found in
the shared library are exported for global use by other libraries. The
option **-lazy** delays the actual loading of symbols until their first
actual use. The options may be abbreviated. The option **\--** indicates
the end of the options, and should be used if you wish to use a filename
which starts with **-** and you provide a prefix to the **load**
command.

On platforms which do not support the **-global** or **-lazy** options,
the options still exist but have no effect. Note that use of the
**-global** or **-lazy** option may lead to crashes in your application
later (in case of symbol conflicts resp. missing symbols), which cannot
be detected during the **load**. So, only use this when you know what
you are doing, you will not get a nice error message when something is
wrong with the loaded library.

# PORTABILITY ISSUES

**Windows**     

:   When a load fails with error, it is also possible that a dependent
    library was not found. To see the dependent libraries, type in a DOS
    console to see what the library must import. When loading a DLL in
    the current directory, Windows will ignore as a path specifier and
    use a search heuristic to find the DLL instead. To avoid this, load
    the DLL with:

        load [file join [pwd] mylib.DLL]

# BUGS

If the same file is **load**ed by different *fileName*s, it will be
loaded into the process\'s address space multiple times. The behavior of
this varies from system to system (some systems may detect the redundant
loads, others may not).

# EXAMPLE

The following is a minimal extension:

    #include <tcl.h>
    #include <stdio.h>
    static int fooCmd(void *clientData,
            Tcl_Interp *interp, int objc, Tcl_Obj *const objv[]) {
        printf("called with %d arguments\n", objc);
        return TCL_OK;
    }
    int Foo_Init(Tcl_Interp *interp) {
        if (Tcl_InitStubs(interp, "8.1", 0) == NULL) {
    	return TCL_ERROR;
        }
        printf("creating foo command");
        Tcl_CreateObjCommand(interp, "foo", fooCmd, NULL, NULL);
        return TCL_OK;
    }

When built into a shared/dynamic library with a suitable name (e.g.
**foo.dll** on Windows, **libfoo.so** on Solaris and Linux) it can then
be loaded into Tcl with the following:

    # Load the extension
    switch $tcl_platform(platform) {
        windows {
            load [file join [pwd] foo.dll]
        }
        unix {
            load [file join [pwd] libfoo[info sharedlibextension]]
        }
    }

    # Now execute the command defined by the extension
    foo

# SEE ALSO

info sharedlibextension, package(n), Tcl_StaticPackage(3), safe(n)

# KEYWORDS

binary code, dynamic library, load, safe interpreter, shared library
