# NAME

Tcl_CreateEventSource, Tcl_DeleteEventSource, Tcl_SetMaxBlockTime,
Tcl_QueueEvent, Tcl_ThreadQueueEvent, Tcl_ThreadAlert,
Tcl_GetCurrentThread, Tcl_DeleteEvents, Tcl_InitNotifier,
Tcl_FinalizeNotifier, Tcl_WaitForEvent, Tcl_AlertNotifier, Tcl_SetTimer,
Tcl_ServiceAll, Tcl_ServiceEvent, Tcl_GetServiceMode,
Tcl_SetServiceMode, Tcl_ServiceModeHook, Tcl_SetNotifier - the event
queue and notifier interfaces

# SYNOPSIS

**#include \<tcl.h\>**

void **Tcl_CreateEventSource**(*setupProc, checkProc, clientData*)

void **Tcl_DeleteEventSource**(*setupProc, checkProc, clientData*)

void **Tcl_SetMaxBlockTime**(*timePtr*)

void **Tcl_QueueEvent**(*evPtr, position*)

void **Tcl_ThreadQueueEvent**(*threadId, evPtr, position*)

void **Tcl_ThreadAlert**(*threadId*)

Tcl_ThreadId **Tcl_GetCurrentThread**()

void **Tcl_DeleteEvents**(*deleteProc, clientData*)

ClientData **Tcl_InitNotifier**()

void **Tcl_FinalizeNotifier**(*clientData*)

int **Tcl_WaitForEvent**(*timePtr*)

void **Tcl_AlertNotifier**(*clientData*)

void **Tcl_SetTimer**(*timePtr*)

int **Tcl_ServiceAll**()

int **Tcl_ServiceEvent**(*flags*)

int **Tcl_GetServiceMode**()

int **Tcl_SetServiceMode**(*mode*)

void **Tcl_ServiceModeHook**(*mode*)

void **Tcl_SetNotifier**(*notifierProcPtr*)

# ARGUMENTS

Procedure to invoke to prepare for event wait in **Tcl_DoOneEvent**.

Procedure for **Tcl_DoOneEvent** to invoke after waiting for events.
Checks to see if any events have occurred and, if so, queues them.

Arbitrary one-word value to pass to *setupProc*, *checkProc*, or
*deleteProc*.

Indicates the maximum amount of time to wait for an event. This is
specified as an interval (how long to wait), not an absolute time (when
to wakeup). If the pointer passed to **Tcl_WaitForEvent** is NULL, it
means there is no maximum wait time: wait forever if necessary.

An event to add to the event queue. The storage for the event must have
been allocated by the caller using **Tcl_Alloc** or **ckalloc**.

Where to add the new event in the queue: **TCL_QUEUE_TAIL**,
**TCL_QUEUE_HEAD**, or **TCL_QUEUE_MARK**.

A unique identifier for a thread.

Procedure to invoke for each queued event in **Tcl_DeleteEvents**.

What types of events to service. These flags are the same as those
passed to **Tcl_DoOneEvent**.

Indicates whether events should be serviced by **Tcl_ServiceAll**. Must
be one of **TCL_SERVICE_NONE** or **TCL_SERVICE_ALL**.

Structure of function pointers describing notifier procedures that are
to replace the ones installed in the executable. See **REPLACING THE
NOTIFIER** for details.

# INTRODUCTION

The interfaces described here are used to customize the Tcl event loop.
The two most common customizations are to add new sources of events and
to merge Tcl\'s event loop with some other event loop, such as one
provided by an application in which Tcl is embedded. Each of these tasks
is described in a separate section below.

The procedures in this manual entry are the building blocks out of which
the Tcl event notifier is constructed. The event notifier is the lowest
layer in the Tcl event mechanism. It consists of three things:

\[1\]

:   Event sources: these represent the ways in which events can be
    generated. For example, there is a timer event source that
    implements the **Tcl_CreateTimerHandler** procedure and the
    **after** command, and there is a file event source that implements
    the **Tcl_CreateFileHandler** procedure on Unix systems. An event
    source must work with the notifier to detect events at the right
    times, record them on the event queue, and eventually notify
    higher-level software that they have occurred. The procedures
    **Tcl_CreateEventSource**, **Tcl_DeleteEventSource**, and
    **Tcl_SetMaxBlockTime**, **Tcl_QueueEvent**, and
    **Tcl_DeleteEvents** are used primarily by event sources.

\[2\]

:   The event queue: for non-threaded applications, there is a single
    queue for the whole application, containing events that have been
    detected but not yet serviced. Event sources place events onto the
    queue so that they may be processed in order at appropriate times
    during the event loop. The event queue guarantees a fair discipline
    of event handling, so that no event source can starve the others. It
    also allows events to be saved for servicing at a future time.
    Threaded applications work in a similar manner, except that there is
    a separate event queue for each thread containing a Tcl interpreter.
    **Tcl_QueueEvent** is used (primarily by event sources) to add
    events to the event queue and **Tcl_DeleteEvents** is used to remove
    events from the queue without processing them. In a threaded
    application, **Tcl_QueueEvent** adds an event to the current
    thread\'s queue, and **Tcl_ThreadQueueEvent** adds an event to a
    queue in a specific thread.

\[3\]

:   The event loop: in order to detect and process events, the
    application enters a loop that waits for events to occur, places
    them on the event queue, and then processes them. Most applications
    will do this by calling the procedure **Tcl_DoOneEvent**, which is
    described in a separate manual entry.

Most Tcl applications need not worry about any of the internals of the
Tcl notifier. However, the notifier now has enough flexibility to be
retargeted either for a new platform or to use an external event loop
(such as the Motif event loop, when Tcl is embedded in a Motif
application). The procedures **Tcl_WaitForEvent** and **Tcl_SetTimer**
are normally implemented by Tcl, but may be replaced with new versions
to retarget the notifier (the **Tcl_InitNotifier**,
**Tcl_AlertNotifier**, **Tcl_FinalizeNotifier**, **Tcl_Sleep**,
**Tcl_CreateFileHandler**, and **Tcl_DeleteFileHandler** must also be
replaced; see CREATING A NEW NOTIFIER below for details). The procedures
**Tcl_ServiceAll**, **Tcl_ServiceEvent**, **Tcl_GetServiceMode**, and
**Tcl_SetServiceMode** are provided to help connect Tcl\'s event loop to
an external event loop such as Motif\'s.

# NOTIFIER BASICS

The easiest way to understand how the notifier works is to consider what
happens when **Tcl_DoOneEvent** is called. **Tcl_DoOneEvent** is passed
a *flags* argument that indicates what sort of events it is OK to
process and also whether or not to block if no events are ready.
**Tcl_DoOneEvent** does the following things:

\[1\]

:   Check the event queue to see if it contains any events that can be
    serviced. If so, service the first possible event, remove it from
    the queue, and return. It does this by calling **Tcl_ServiceEvent**
    and passing in the *flags* argument.

\[2\]

:   Prepare to block for an event. To do this, **Tcl_DoOneEvent**
    invokes a *setup procedure* in each event source. The event source
    will perform event-source specific initialization and possibly call
    **Tcl_SetMaxBlockTime** to limit how long **Tcl_WaitForEvent** will
    block if no new events occur.

\[3\]

:   Call **Tcl_WaitForEvent**. This procedure is implemented differently
    on different platforms; it waits for an event to occur, based on the
    information provided by the event sources. It may cause the
    application to block if *timePtr* specifies an interval other
    than 0. **Tcl_WaitForEvent** returns when something has happened,
    such as a file becoming readable or the interval given by *timePtr*
    expiring. If there are no events for **Tcl_WaitForEvent** to wait
    for, so that it would block forever, then it returns immediately and
    **Tcl_DoOneEvent** returns 0.

\[4\]

:   Call a *check procedure* in each event source. The check procedure
    determines whether any events of interest to this source occurred.
    If so, the events are added to the event queue.

\[5\]

:   Check the event queue to see if it contains any events that can be
    serviced. If so, service the first possible event, remove it from
    the queue, and return.

\[6\]

:   See if there are idle callbacks pending. If so, invoke all of them
    and return.

\[7\]

:   Either return 0 to indicate that no events were ready, or go back to
    step \[2\] if blocking was requested by the caller.

# CREATING A NEW EVENT SOURCE

An event source consists of three procedures invoked by the notifier,
plus additional C procedures that are invoked by higher-level code to
arrange for event-driven callbacks. The three procedures called by the
notifier consist of the setup and check procedures described above, plus
an additional procedure that is invoked when an event is removed from
the event queue for servicing.

The procedure **Tcl_CreateEventSource** creates a new event source. Its
arguments specify the setup procedure and check procedure for the event
source. *SetupProc* should match the following prototype:

    typedef void Tcl_EventSetupProc(
            ClientData clientData,
            int flags);

The *clientData* argument will be the same as the *clientData* argument
to **Tcl_CreateEventSource**; it is typically used to point to private
information managed by the event source. The *flags* argument will be
the same as the *flags* argument passed to **Tcl_DoOneEvent** except
that it will never be 0 (**Tcl_DoOneEvent** replaces 0 with
**TCL_ALL_EVENTS**). *Flags* indicates what kinds of events should be
considered; if the bit corresponding to this event source is not set,
the event source should return immediately without doing anything. For
example, the file event source checks for the **TCL_FILE_EVENTS** bit.

*SetupProc*\'s job is to make sure that the application wakes up when
events of the desired type occur. This is typically done in a
platform-dependent fashion. For example, under Unix an event source
might call **Tcl_CreateFileHandler**; under Windows it might request
notification with a Windows event. For timer-driven event sources such
as timer events or any polled event, the event source can call
**Tcl_SetMaxBlockTime** to force the application to wake up after a
specified time even if no events have occurred. If no event source calls
**Tcl_SetMaxBlockTime** then **Tcl_WaitForEvent** will wait as long as
necessary for an event to occur; otherwise, it will only wait as long as
the shortest interval passed to **Tcl_SetMaxBlockTime** by one of the
event sources. If an event source knows that it already has events ready
to report, it can request a zero maximum block time. For example, the
setup procedure for the X event source looks to see if there are events
already queued. If there are, it calls **Tcl_SetMaxBlockTime** with a 0
block time so that **Tcl_WaitForEvent** does not block if there is no
new data on the X connection. The *timePtr* argument to
**Tcl_WaitForEvent** points to a structure that describes a time
interval in seconds and microseconds:

    typedef struct Tcl_Time {
        long sec;
        long usec;
    } Tcl_Time;

The *usec* field should be less than 1000000.

Information provided to **Tcl_SetMaxBlockTime** is only used for the
next call to **Tcl_WaitForEvent**; it is discarded after
**Tcl_WaitForEvent** returns. The next time an event wait is done each
of the event sources\' setup procedures will be called again, and they
can specify new information for that event wait.

If the application uses an external event loop rather than
**Tcl_DoOneEvent**, the event sources may need to call
**Tcl_SetMaxBlockTime** at other times. For example, if a new event
handler is registered that needs to poll for events, the event source
may call **Tcl_SetMaxBlockTime** to set the block time to zero to force
the external event loop to call Tcl. In this case,
**Tcl_SetMaxBlockTime** invokes **Tcl_SetTimer** with the shortest
interval seen since the last call to **Tcl_DoOneEvent** or
**Tcl_ServiceAll**.

In addition to the generic procedure **Tcl_SetMaxBlockTime**, other
platform-specific procedures may also be available for *setupProc*, if
there is additional information needed by **Tcl_WaitForEvent** on that
platform. For example, on Unix systems the **Tcl_CreateFileHandler**
interface can be used to wait for file events.

The second procedure provided by each event source is its check
procedure, indicated by the *checkProc* argument to
**Tcl_CreateEventSource**. *CheckProc* must match the following
prototype:

    typedef void Tcl_EventCheckProc(
            ClientData clientData,
            int flags);

The arguments to this procedure are the same as those for *setupProc*.
**CheckProc** is invoked by **Tcl_DoOneEvent** after it has waited for
events. Presumably at least one event source is now prepared to queue an
event. **Tcl_DoOneEvent** calls each of the event sources in turn, so
they all have a chance to queue any events that are ready. The check
procedure does two things. First, it must see if any events have
triggered. Different event sources do this in different ways.

If an event source\'s check procedure detects an interesting event, it
must add the event to Tcl\'s event queue. To do this, the event source
calls **Tcl_QueueEvent**. The *evPtr* argument is a pointer to a
dynamically allocated structure containing the event (see below for more
information on memory management issues). Each event source can define
its own event structure with whatever information is relevant to that
event source. However, the first element of the structure must be a
structure of type **Tcl_Event**, and the address of this structure is
used when communicating between the event source and the rest of the
notifier. A **Tcl_Event** has the following definition:

    typedef struct {
        Tcl_EventProc *proc;
        struct Tcl_Event *nextPtr;
    } Tcl_Event;

The event source must fill in the *proc* field of the event before
calling **Tcl_QueueEvent**. The *nextPtr* is used to link together the
events in the queue and should not be modified by the event source.

An event may be added to the queue at any of three positions, depending
on the *position* argument to **Tcl_QueueEvent**:

TCL_QUEUE_TAIL

:   Add the event at the back of the queue, so that all other pending
    events will be serviced first. This is almost always the right place
    for new events.

TCL_QUEUE_HEAD

:   Add the event at the front of the queue, so that it will be serviced
    before all other queued events.

TCL_QUEUE_MARK

:   Add the event at the front of the queue, unless there are other
    events at the front whose position is **TCL_QUEUE_MARK**; if so, add
    the new event just after all other **TCL_QUEUE_MARK** events. This
    value of *position* is used to insert an ordered sequence of events
    at the front of the queue, such as a series of Enter and Leave
    events synthesized during a grab or ungrab operation in Tk.

When it is time to handle an event from the queue (steps 1 and 4 above)
**Tcl_ServiceEvent** will invoke the *proc* specified in the first
queued **Tcl_Event** structure. *Proc* must match the following
prototype:

    typedef int Tcl_EventProc(
            Tcl_Event *evPtr,
            int flags);

The first argument to *proc* is a pointer to the event, which will be
the same as the first argument to the **Tcl_QueueEvent** call that added
the event to the queue. The second argument to *proc* is the *flags*
argument for the current call to **Tcl_ServiceEvent**; this is used by
the event source to return immediately if its events are not relevant.

It is up to *proc* to handle the event, typically by invoking one or
more Tcl commands or C-level callbacks. Once the event source has
finished handling the event it returns 1 to indicate that the event can
be removed from the queue. If for some reason the event source decides
that the event cannot be handled at this time, it may return 0 to
indicate that the event should be deferred for processing later; in this
case **Tcl_ServiceEvent** will go on to the next event in the queue and
attempt to service it. There are several reasons why an event source
might defer an event. One possibility is that events of this type are
excluded by the *flags* argument. For example, the file event source
will always return 0 if the **TCL_FILE_EVENTS** bit is not set in
*flags*. Another example of deferring events happens in Tk if
**Tk_RestrictEvents** has been invoked to defer certain kinds of window
events.

When *proc* returns 1, **Tcl_ServiceEvent** will remove the event from
the event queue and free its storage. Note that the storage for an event
must be allocated by the event source (using **Tcl_Alloc** or the Tcl
macro **ckalloc**) before calling **Tcl_QueueEvent**, but it will be
freed by **Tcl_ServiceEvent**, not by the event source.

Threaded applications work in a similar manner, except that there is a
separate event queue for each thread containing a Tcl interpreter.
Calling **Tcl_QueueEvent** in a multithreaded application adds an event
to the current thread\'s queue. To add an event to another thread\'s
queue, use **Tcl_ThreadQueueEvent**. **Tcl_ThreadQueueEvent** accepts as
an argument a Tcl_ThreadId argument, which uniquely identifies a thread
in a Tcl application. To obtain the Tcl_ThreadId for the current thread,
use the **Tcl_GetCurrentThread** procedure. (A thread would then need to
pass this identifier to other threads for those threads to be able to
add events to its queue.) After adding an event to another thread\'s
queue, you then typically need to call **Tcl_ThreadAlert** to that
thread\'s notifier to alert it to the new event.

**Tcl_DeleteEvents** can be used to explicitly remove one or more events
from the event queue. **Tcl_DeleteEvents** calls *proc* for each event
in the queue, deleting those for with the procedure returns 1. Events
for which the procedure returns 0 are left in the queue. *Proc* should
match the following prototype:

    typedef int Tcl_EventDeleteProc(
            Tcl_Event *evPtr,
            ClientData clientData);

The *clientData* argument will be the same as the *clientData* argument
to **Tcl_DeleteEvents**; it is typically used to point to private
information managed by the event source. The *evPtr* will point to the
next event in the queue.

**Tcl_DeleteEventSource** deletes an event source. The *setupProc*,
*checkProc*, and *clientData* arguments must exactly match those
provided to the **Tcl_CreateEventSource** for the event source to be
deleted. If no such source exists, **Tcl_DeleteEventSource** has no
effect.

# CREATING A NEW NOTIFIER

The notifier consists of all the procedures described in this manual
entry, plus **Tcl_DoOneEvent** and **Tcl_Sleep**, which are available on
all platforms, and **Tcl_CreateFileHandler** and
**Tcl_DeleteFileHandler**, which are Unix-specific. Most of these
procedures are generic, in that they are the same for all notifiers.
However, none of the procedures are notifier-dependent:
**Tcl_InitNotifier**, **Tcl_AlertNotifier**, **Tcl_FinalizeNotifier**,
**Tcl_SetTimer**, **Tcl_Sleep**, **Tcl_WaitForEvent**,
**Tcl_CreateFileHandler**, **Tcl_DeleteFileHandler** and
**Tcl_ServiceModeHook**. To support a new platform or to integrate Tcl
with an application-specific event loop, you must write new versions of
these procedures.

**Tcl_InitNotifier** initializes the notifier state and returns a handle
to the notifier state. Tcl calls this procedure when initializing a Tcl
interpreter. Similarly, **Tcl_FinalizeNotifier** shuts down the
notifier, and is called by **Tcl_Finalize** when shutting down a Tcl
interpreter.

**Tcl_WaitForEvent** is the lowest-level procedure in the notifier; it
is responsible for waiting for an event to occur or for a given time to
elapse. Before **Tcl_WaitForEvent** is invoked, each of the event
sources\' setup procedure will have been invoked. The *timePtr* argument
to **Tcl_WaitForEvent** gives the maximum time to block for an event,
based on calls to **Tcl_SetMaxBlockTime** made by setup procedures and
on other information (such as the **TCL_DONT_WAIT** bit in *flags*).

Ideally, **Tcl_WaitForEvent** should only wait for an event to occur; it
should not actually process the event in any way. Later on, the event
sources will process the raw events and create Tcl_Events on the event
queue in their *checkProc* procedures. However, on some platforms (such
as Windows) this is not possible; events may be processed in
**Tcl_WaitForEvent**, including queuing Tcl_Events and more (for
example, callbacks for native widgets may be invoked). The return value
from **Tcl_WaitForEvent** must be either 0, 1, or -1. On platforms such
as Windows where events get processed in **Tcl_WaitForEvent**, a return
value of 1 means that there may be more events still pending that have
not been processed. This is a sign to the caller that it must call
**Tcl_WaitForEvent** again if it wants all pending events to be
processed. A 0 return value means that calling **Tcl_WaitForEvent**
again will not have any effect: either this is a platform where
**Tcl_WaitForEvent** only waits without doing any event processing, or
**Tcl_WaitForEvent** knows for sure that there are no additional events
to process (e.g. it returned because the time elapsed). Finally, a
return value of -1 means that the event loop is no longer operational
and the application should probably unwind and terminate. Under Windows
this happens when a WM_QUIT message is received; under Unix it happens
when **Tcl_WaitForEvent** would have waited forever because there were
no active event sources and the timeout was infinite.

**Tcl_AlertNotifier** is used in multithreaded applications to allow any
thread to the notifier to alert it to new events on its queue.
**Tcl_AlertNotifier** requires as an argument the notifier handle
returned by **Tcl_InitNotifier**.

If the notifier will be used with an external event loop, then it must
also support the **Tcl_SetTimer** interface. **Tcl_SetTimer** is invoked
by **Tcl_SetMaxBlockTime** whenever the maximum blocking time has been
reduced. **Tcl_SetTimer** should arrange for the external event loop to
invoke **Tcl_ServiceAll** after the specified interval even if no events
have occurred. This interface is needed because **Tcl_WaitForEvent** is
not invoked when there is an external event loop. If the notifier will
only be used from **Tcl_DoOneEvent**, then **Tcl_SetTimer** need not do
anything.

**Tcl_ServiceModeHook** is called by the platform-independent portion of
the notifier when client code makes a call to **Tcl_SetServiceMode**.
This hook is provided to support operating systems that require special
event handling when the application is in a modal loop (the Windows
notifier, for instance, uses this hook to create a communication
window).

On Unix systems, the file event source also needs support from the
notifier. The file event source consists of the
**Tcl_CreateFileHandler** and **Tcl_DeleteFileHandler** procedures,
which are described in the **Tcl_CreateFileHandler** manual page.

The **Tcl_Sleep** and **Tcl_DoOneEvent** interfaces are described in
their respective manual pages.

The easiest way to create a new notifier is to look at the code for an
existing notifier, such as the files **unix/tclUnixNotfy.c** or
**win/tclWinNotify.c** in the Tcl source distribution.

# REPLACING THE NOTIFIER

A notifier that has been written according to the conventions above can
also be installed in a running process in place of the standard
notifier. This mechanism is used so that a single executable can be used
(with the standard notifier) as a stand-alone program and reused (with a
replacement notifier in a loadable extension) as an extension to another
program, such as a Web browser plugin.

To do this, the extension makes a call to **Tcl_SetNotifier** passing a
pointer to a **Tcl_NotifierProcs** data structure. The structure has the
following layout:

    typedef struct Tcl_NotifierProcs {
        Tcl_SetTimerProc *setTimerProc;
        Tcl_WaitForEventProc *waitForEventProc;
        Tcl_CreateFileHandlerProc *createFileHandlerProc;
        Tcl_DeleteFileHandlerProc *deleteFileHandlerProc;
        Tcl_InitNotifierProc *initNotifierProc;
        Tcl_FinalizeNotifierProc *finalizeNotifierProc;
        Tcl_AlertNotifierProc *alertNotifierProc;
        Tcl_ServiceModeHookProc *serviceModeHookProc;
    } Tcl_NotifierProcs;

Following the call to **Tcl_SetNotifier**, the pointers given in the
**Tcl_NotifierProcs** structure replace whatever notifier had been
installed in the process.

It is extraordinarily unwise to replace a running notifier. Normally,
**Tcl_SetNotifier** should be called at process initialization time
before the first call to **Tcl_InitNotifier**.

# EXTERNAL EVENT LOOPS

The notifier interfaces are designed so that Tcl can be embedded into
applications that have their own private event loops. In this case, the
application does not call **Tcl_DoOneEvent** except in the case of
recursive event loops such as calls to the Tcl commands **update** or
**vwait**. Most of the time is spent in the external event loop of the
application. In this case the notifier must arrange for the external
event loop to call back into Tcl when something happens on the various
Tcl event sources. These callbacks should arrange for appropriate Tcl
events to be placed on the Tcl event queue.

Because the external event loop is not calling **Tcl_DoOneEvent** on a
regular basis, it is up to the notifier to arrange for
**Tcl_ServiceEvent** to be called whenever events are pending on the Tcl
event queue. The easiest way to do this is to invoke **Tcl_ServiceAll**
at the end of each callback from the external event loop. This will
ensure that all of the event sources are polled, any queued events are
serviced, and any pending idle handlers are processed before returning
control to the application. In addition, event sources that need to poll
for events can call **Tcl_SetMaxBlockTime** to force the external event
loop to call Tcl even if no events are available on the system event
queue.

As a side effect of processing events detected in the main external
event loop, Tcl may invoke **Tcl_DoOneEvent** to start a recursive event
loop in commands like **vwait**. **Tcl_DoOneEvent** will invoke the
external event loop, which will result in callbacks as described in the
preceding paragraph, which will result in calls to **Tcl_ServiceAll**.
However, in these cases it is undesirable to service events in
**Tcl_ServiceAll**. Servicing events there is unnecessary because
control will immediately return to the external event loop and hence to
**Tcl_DoOneEvent**, which can service the events itself. Furthermore,
**Tcl_DoOneEvent** is supposed to service only a single event, whereas
**Tcl_ServiceAll** normally services all pending events. To handle this
situation, **Tcl_DoOneEvent** sets a flag for **Tcl_ServiceAll** that
causes it to return without servicing any events. This flag is called
the *service mode*; **Tcl_DoOneEvent** restores it to its previous value
before it returns.

In some cases, however, it may be necessary for **Tcl_ServiceAll** to
service events even when it has been invoked from **Tcl_DoOneEvent**.
This happens when there is yet another recursive event loop invoked via
an event handler called by **Tcl_DoOneEvent** (such as one that is part
of a native widget). In this case, **Tcl_DoOneEvent** may not have a
chance to service events so **Tcl_ServiceAll** must service them all.
Any recursive event loop that calls an external event loop rather than
**Tcl_DoOneEvent** must reset the service mode so that all events get
processed in **Tcl_ServiceAll**. This is done by invoking the
**Tcl_SetServiceMode** procedure. If **Tcl_SetServiceMode** is passed
**TCL_SERVICE_NONE**, then calls to **Tcl_ServiceAll** will return
immediately without processing any events. If **Tcl_SetServiceMode** is
passed **TCL_SERVICE_ALL**, then calls to **Tcl_ServiceAll** will behave
normally. **Tcl_SetServiceMode** returns the previous value of the
service mode, which should be restored when the recursive loop exits.
**Tcl_GetServiceMode** returns the current value of the service mode.

# SEE ALSO

Tcl_CreateFileHandler(3), Tcl_DeleteFileHandler(3), Tcl_Sleep(3),
Tcl_DoOneEvent(3), Thread(3)

# KEYWORDS

event, notifier, event queue, event sources, file events, timer, idle,
service mode, threads
