# NAME

Tcl_SetVar2Ex, Tcl_SetVar, Tcl_SetVar2, Tcl_ObjSetVar2, Tcl_GetVar2Ex,
Tcl_GetVar, Tcl_GetVar2, Tcl_ObjGetVar2, Tcl_UnsetVar, Tcl_UnsetVar2 -
manipulate Tcl variables

# SYNOPSIS

**#include \<tcl.h\>**

Tcl_Obj \* **Tcl_SetVar2Ex**(*interp, name1, name2, newValuePtr, flags*)

const char \* **Tcl_SetVar**(*interp, varName, newValue, flags*)

const char \* **Tcl_SetVar2**(*interp, name1, name2, newValue, flags*)

Tcl_Obj \* **Tcl_ObjSetVar2**(*interp, part1Ptr, part2Ptr, newValuePtr,
flags*)

Tcl_Obj \* **Tcl_GetVar2Ex**(*interp, name1, name2, flags*)

const char \* **Tcl_GetVar**(*interp, varName, flags*)

const char \* **Tcl_GetVar2**(*interp, name1, name2, flags*)

Tcl_Obj \* **Tcl_ObjGetVar2**(*interp, part1Ptr, part2Ptr, flags*)

int **Tcl_UnsetVar**(*interp, varName, flags*)

int **Tcl_UnsetVar2**(*interp, name1, name2, flags*)

# ARGUMENTS

Interpreter containing variable.

Contains the name of an array variable (if *name2* is non-NULL) or (if
*name2* is NULL) either the name of a scalar variable or a complete name
including both variable name and index. May include **::** namespace
qualifiers to specify a variable in a particular namespace.

If non-NULL, gives name of element within array; in this case *name1*
must refer to an array variable.

Points to a Tcl value containing the new value for the variable.

OR-ed combination of bits providing additional information. See below
for valid values.

Name of variable. May include **::** namespace qualifiers to specify a
variable in a particular namespace. May refer to a scalar variable or an
element of an array.

New value for variable, specified as a null-terminated string. A copy of
this value is stored in the variable.

Points to a Tcl value containing the variable\'s name. The name may
include a series of **::** namespace qualifiers to specify a variable in
a particular namespace. May refer to a scalar variable or an element of
an array variable.

If non-NULL, points to a value containing the name of an element within
an array and *part1Ptr* must refer to an array variable.

# DESCRIPTION

These procedures are used to create, modify, read, and delete Tcl
variables from C code.

**Tcl_SetVar2Ex**, **Tcl_SetVar**, **Tcl_SetVar2**, and
**Tcl_ObjSetVar2** will create a new variable or modify an existing one.
These procedures set the given variable to the value given by
*newValuePtr* or *newValue* and return a pointer to the variable\'s new
value, which is stored in Tcl\'s variable structure. **Tcl_SetVar2Ex**
and **Tcl_ObjSetVar2** take the new value as a Tcl_Obj and return a
pointer to a Tcl_Obj. **Tcl_SetVar** and **Tcl_SetVar2** take the new
value as a string and return a string; they are usually less efficient
than **Tcl_ObjSetVar2**. Note that the return value may be different
than the *newValuePtr* or *newValue* argument, due to modifications made
by write traces. If an error occurs in setting the variable (e.g. an
array variable is referenced without giving an index into the array)
NULL is returned and an error message is left in *interp*\'s result if
the **TCL_LEAVE_ERR_MSG** *flag* bit is set.

**Tcl_GetVar2Ex**, **Tcl_GetVar**, **Tcl_GetVar2**, and
**Tcl_ObjGetVar2** return the current value of a variable. The arguments
to these procedures are treated in the same way as the arguments to the
procedures described above. Under normal circumstances, the return value
is a pointer to the variable\'s value. For **Tcl_GetVar2Ex** and
**Tcl_ObjGetVar2** the value is returned as a pointer to a Tcl_Obj. For
**Tcl_GetVar** and **Tcl_GetVar2** the value is returned as a string;
this is usually less efficient, so **Tcl_GetVar2Ex** or
**Tcl_ObjGetVar2** are preferred. If an error occurs while reading the
variable (e.g. the variable does not exist or an array element is
specified for a scalar variable), then NULL is returned and an error
message is left in *interp*\'s result if the **TCL_LEAVE_ERR_MSG**
*flag* bit is set.

**Tcl_UnsetVar** and **Tcl_UnsetVar2** may be used to remove a variable,
so that future attempts to read the variable will return an error. The
arguments to these procedures are treated in the same way as the
arguments to the procedures above. If the variable is successfully
removed then **TCL_OK** is returned. If the variable cannot be removed
because it does not exist then **TCL_ERROR** is returned and an error
message is left in *interp*\'s result if the **TCL_LEAVE_ERR_MSG**
*flag* bit is set. If an array element is specified, the given element
is removed but the array remains. If an array name is specified without
an index, then the entire array is removed.

The name of a variable may be specified to these procedures in four
ways:

\[1\]

:   If **Tcl_SetVar**, **Tcl_GetVar**, or **Tcl_UnsetVar** is invoked,
    the variable name is given as a single string, *varName*. If
    *varName* contains an open parenthesis and ends with a close
    parenthesis, then the value between the parentheses is treated as an
    index (which can have any string value) and the characters before
    the first open parenthesis are treated as the name of an array
    variable. If *varName* does not have parentheses as described above,
    then the entire string is treated as the name of a scalar variable.

\[2\]

:   If the *name1* and *name2* arguments are provided and *name2* is
    non-NULL, then an array element is specified and the array name and
    index have already been separated by the caller: *name1* contains
    the name and *name2* contains the index. An error is generated if
    *name1* contains an open parenthesis and ends with a close
    parenthesis (array element) and *name2* is non-NULL.

\[3\]

:   If *name2* is NULL, *name1* is treated just like *varName* in case
    \[1\] above (it can be either a scalar or an array element variable
    name).

The *flags* argument may be used to specify any of several options to
the procedures. It consists of an OR-ed combination of the following
bits.

**TCL_GLOBAL_ONLY**

:   Under normal circumstances the procedures look up variables as
    follows. If a procedure call is active in *interp*, the variable is
    looked up at the current level of procedure call. Otherwise, the
    variable is looked up first in the current namespace, then in the
    global namespace. However, if this bit is set in *flags* then the
    variable is looked up only in the global namespace even if there is
    a procedure call active. If both **TCL_GLOBAL_ONLY** and
    **TCL_NAMESPACE_ONLY** are given, **TCL_GLOBAL_ONLY** is ignored.

**TCL_NAMESPACE_ONLY**

:   If this bit is set in *flags* then the variable is looked up only in
    the current namespace; if a procedure is active its variables are
    ignored, and the global namespace is also ignored unless it is the
    current namespace.

**TCL_LEAVE_ERR_MSG**

:   If an error is returned and this bit is set in *flags*, then an
    error message will be left in the interpreter\'s result, where it
    can be retrieved with **Tcl_GetObjResult** or
    **Tcl_GetStringResult**. If this flag bit is not set then no error
    message is left and the interpreter\'s result will not be modified.

**TCL_APPEND_VALUE**

:   If this bit is set then *newValuePtr* or *newValue* is appended to
    the current value instead of replacing it. If the variable is
    currently undefined, then the bit is ignored. This bit is only used
    by the **Tcl_Set\*** procedures.

**TCL_LIST_ELEMENT**

:   If this bit is set, then *newValue* is converted to a valid Tcl list
    element before setting (or appending to) the variable. A separator
    space is appended before the new list element unless the list
    element is going to be the first element in a list or sublist (i.e.
    the variable\'s current value is empty, or contains the single
    character or ends in When appending, the original value of the
    variable must also be a valid list, so that the operation is the
    appending of a new list element onto a list.

**Tcl_GetVar** and **Tcl_GetVar2** return the current value of a
variable. The arguments to these procedures are treated in the same way
as the arguments to **Tcl_SetVar** and **Tcl_SetVar2**. Under normal
circumstances, the return value is a pointer to the variable\'s value
(which is stored in Tcl\'s variable structure and will not change before
the next call to **Tcl_SetVar** or **Tcl_SetVar2**). **Tcl_GetVar** and
**Tcl_GetVar2** use the flag bits **TCL_GLOBAL_ONLY** and
**TCL_LEAVE_ERR_MSG**, both of which have the same meaning as for
**Tcl_SetVar**. If an error occurs in reading the variable (e.g. the
variable does not exist or an array element is specified for a scalar
variable), then NULL is returned.

**Tcl_UnsetVar** and **Tcl_UnsetVar2** may be used to remove a variable,
so that future calls to **Tcl_GetVar** or **Tcl_GetVar2** for the
variable will return an error. The arguments to these procedures are
treated in the same way as the arguments to **Tcl_GetVar** and
**Tcl_GetVar2**. If the variable is successfully removed then **TCL_OK**
is returned. If the variable cannot be removed because it does not exist
then **TCL_ERROR** is returned. If an array element is specified, the
given element is removed but the array remains. If an array name is
specified without an index, then the entire array is removed.

# SEE ALSO

Tcl_GetObjResult, Tcl_GetStringResult, Tcl_TraceVar

# KEYWORDS

array, get variable, interpreter, scalar, set, unset, value, variable
