# NAME

Tcl_TraceVar, Tcl_TraceVar2, Tcl_UntraceVar, Tcl_UntraceVar2,
Tcl_VarTraceInfo, Tcl_VarTraceInfo2 - monitor accesses to a variable

# SYNOPSIS

**#include \<tcl.h\>**

int **Tcl_TraceVar(***interp, varName, flags, proc, clientData***)**

int **Tcl_TraceVar2(***interp, name1, name2, flags, proc,
clientData***)**

**Tcl_UntraceVar(***interp, varName, flags, proc, clientData***)**

**Tcl_UntraceVar2(***interp, name1, name2, flags, proc, clientData***)**

ClientData **Tcl_VarTraceInfo(***interp, varName, flags, proc,
prevClientData***)**

ClientData **Tcl_VarTraceInfo2(***interp, name1, name2, flags, proc,
prevClientData***)**

# ARGUMENTS

Interpreter containing variable.

Name of variable. May refer to a scalar variable, to an array variable
with no index, or to an array variable with a parenthesized index.

OR-ed combination of the values **TCL_TRACE_READS**,
**TCL_TRACE_WRITES**, **TCL_TRACE_UNSETS**, **TCL_TRACE_ARRAY**,
**TCL_GLOBAL_ONLY**, **TCL_NAMESPACE_ONLY**,
**TCL_TRACE_RESULT_DYNAMIC** and **TCL_TRACE_RESULT_OBJECT**. Not all
flags are used by all procedures. See below for more information.

Procedure to invoke whenever one of the traced operations occurs.

Arbitrary one-word value to pass to *proc*.

Name of scalar or array variable (without array index).

For a trace on an element of an array, gives the index of the element.
For traces on scalar variables or on whole arrays, is NULL.

If non-NULL, gives last value returned by **Tcl_VarTraceInfo** or
**Tcl_VarTraceInfo2**, so this call will return information about next
trace. If NULL, this call will return information about first trace.

# DESCRIPTION

**Tcl_TraceVar** allows a C procedure to monitor and control access to a
Tcl variable, so that the C procedure is invoked whenever the variable
is read or written or unset. If the trace is created successfully then
**Tcl_TraceVar** returns **TCL_OK**. If an error occurred (e.g.
*varName* specifies an element of an array, but the actual variable is
not an array) then **TCL_ERROR** is returned and an error message is
left in the interpreter\'s result.

The *flags* argument to **Tcl_TraceVar** indicates when the trace
procedure is to be invoked and provides information for setting up the
trace. It consists of an OR-ed combination of any of the following
values:

**TCL_GLOBAL_ONLY**

:   Normally, the variable will be looked up at the current level of
    procedure call; if this bit is set then the variable will be looked
    up at global level, ignoring any active procedures.

**TCL_NAMESPACE_ONLY**

:   Normally, the variable will be looked up at the current level of
    procedure call; if this bit is set then the variable will be looked
    up in the current namespace, ignoring any active procedures.

**TCL_TRACE_READS**

:   Invoke *proc* whenever an attempt is made to read the variable.

**TCL_TRACE_WRITES**

:   Invoke *proc* whenever an attempt is made to modify the variable.

**TCL_TRACE_UNSETS**

:   Invoke *proc* whenever the variable is unset. A variable may be
    unset either explicitly by an **unset** command, or implicitly when
    a procedure returns (its local variables are automatically unset) or
    when the interpreter is deleted (all variables are automatically
    unset).

**TCL_TRACE_ARRAY**

:   Invoke *proc* whenever the array command is invoked. This gives the
    trace procedure a chance to update the array before array names or
    array get is called. Note that this is called before an array set,
    but that will trigger write traces.

**TCL_TRACE_RESULT_DYNAMIC**

:   The result of invoking the *proc* is a dynamically allocated string
    that will be released by the Tcl library via a call to **ckfree**.
    Must not be specified at the same time as
    **TCL_TRACE_RESULT_OBJECT**.

**TCL_TRACE_RESULT_OBJECT**

:   The result of invoking the *proc* is a Tcl_Obj\* (cast to a char\*)
    with a reference count of at least one. The ownership of that
    reference will be transferred to the Tcl core for release (when the
    core has finished with it) via a call to **Tcl_DecrRefCount**. Must
    not be specified at the same time as **TCL_TRACE_RESULT_DYNAMIC**.

Whenever one of the specified operations occurs on the variable, *proc*
will be invoked. It should have arguments and result that match the type
**Tcl_VarTraceProc**:

    typedef char *Tcl_VarTraceProc(
            ClientData clientData,
            Tcl_Interp *interp,
            const char *name1,
            const char *name2,
            int flags);

The *clientData* and *interp* parameters will have the same values as
those passed to **Tcl_TraceVar** when the trace was created.
*ClientData* typically points to an application-specific data structure
that describes what to do when *proc* is invoked. *Name1* and *name2*
give the name of the traced variable in the normal two-part form (see
the description of **Tcl_TraceVar2** below for details). *Flags* is an
OR-ed combination of bits providing several pieces of information. One
of the bits **TCL_TRACE_READS**, **TCL_TRACE_WRITES**,
**TCL_TRACE_ARRAY**, or **TCL_TRACE_UNSETS** will be set in *flags* to
indicate which operation is being performed on the variable. The bit
**TCL_GLOBAL_ONLY** will be set whenever the variable being accessed is
a global one not accessible from the current level of procedure call:
the trace procedure will need to pass this flag back to variable-related
procedures like **Tcl_GetVar** if it attempts to access the variable.
The bit **TCL_NAMESPACE_ONLY** will be set whenever the variable being
accessed is a namespace one not accessible from the current level of
procedure call: the trace procedure will need to pass this flag back to
variable-related procedures like **Tcl_GetVar** if it attempts to access
the variable. The bit **TCL_TRACE_DESTROYED** will be set in *flags* if
the trace is about to be destroyed; this information may be useful to
*proc* so that it can clean up its own internal data structures (see the
section **TCL_TRACE_DESTROYED** below for more details). Lastly, the bit
**TCL_INTERP_DESTROYED** will be set if the entire interpreter is being
destroyed. When this bit is set, *proc* must be especially careful in
the things it does (see the section **TCL_INTERP_DESTROYED** below). The
trace procedure\'s return value should normally be NULL; see **ERROR
RETURNS** below for information on other possibilities.

**Tcl_UntraceVar** may be used to remove a trace. If the variable
specified by *interp*, *varName*, and *flags* has a trace set with
*flags*, *proc*, and *clientData*, then the corresponding trace is
removed. If no such trace exists, then the call to **Tcl_UntraceVar**
has no effect. The same bits are valid for *flags* as for calls to
**Tcl_TraceVar**.

**Tcl_VarTraceInfo** may be used to retrieve information about traces
set on a given variable. The return value from **Tcl_VarTraceInfo** is
the *clientData* associated with a particular trace. The trace must be
on the variable specified by the *interp*, *varName*, and *flags*
arguments (only the **TCL_GLOBAL_ONLY** and **TCL_NAMESPACE_ONLY** bits
from *flags* is used; other bits are ignored) and its trace procedure
must the same as the *proc* argument. If the *prevClientData* argument
is NULL then the return value corresponds to the first (most recently
created) matching trace, or NULL if there are no matching traces. If the
*prevClientData* argument is not NULL, then it should be the return
value from a previous call to **Tcl_VarTraceInfo**. In this case, the
new return value will correspond to the next matching trace after the
one whose *clientData* matches *prevClientData*, or NULL if no trace
matches *prevClientData* or if there are no more matching traces after
it. This mechanism makes it possible to step through all of the traces
for a given variable that have the same *proc*.

# TWO-PART NAMES

The procedures **Tcl_TraceVar2**, **Tcl_UntraceVar2**, and
**Tcl_VarTraceInfo2** are identical to **Tcl_TraceVar**,
**Tcl_UntraceVar**, and **Tcl_VarTraceInfo**, respectively, except that
the name of the variable consists of two parts. *Name1* gives the name
of a scalar variable or array, and *name2* gives the name of an element
within an array. When *name2* is NULL, *name1* may contain both an array
and an element name: if the name contains an open parenthesis and ends
with a close parenthesis, then the value between the parentheses is
treated as an element name (which can have any string value) and the
characters before the first open parenthesis are treated as the name of
an array variable. If *name2* is NULL and *name1* does not refer to an
array element it means that either the variable is a scalar or the trace
is to be set on the entire array rather than an individual element (see
WHOLE-ARRAY TRACES below for more information).

# ACCESSING VARIABLES DURING TRACES

During read, write, and array traces, the trace procedure can read,
write, or unset the traced variable using **Tcl_GetVar2**,
**Tcl_SetVar2**, and other procedures. While *proc* is executing, traces
are temporarily disabled for the variable, so that calls to
**Tcl_GetVar2** and **Tcl_SetVar2** will not cause *proc* or other trace
procedures to be invoked again. Disabling only occurs for the variable
whose trace procedure is active; accesses to other variables will still
be traced. However, if a variable is unset during a read or write trace
then unset traces will be invoked.

During unset traces the variable has already been completely expunged.
It is possible for the trace procedure to read or write the variable,
but this will be a new version of the variable. Traces are not disabled
during unset traces as they are for read and write traces, but existing
traces have been removed from the variable before any trace procedures
are invoked. If new traces are set by unset trace procedures, these
traces will be invoked on accesses to the variable by the trace
procedures.

# CALLBACK TIMING

When read tracing has been specified for a variable, the trace procedure
will be invoked whenever the variable\'s value is read. This includes
**set** Tcl commands, **\$**-notation in Tcl commands, and invocations
of the **Tcl_GetVar** and **Tcl_GetVar2** procedures. *Proc* is invoked
just before the variable\'s value is returned. It may modify the value
of the variable to affect what is returned by the traced access. If it
unsets the variable then the access will return an error just as if the
variable never existed.

When write tracing has been specified for a variable, the trace
procedure will be invoked whenever the variable\'s value is modified.
This includes **set** commands, commands that modify variables as side
effects (such as **catch** and **scan**), and calls to the
**Tcl_SetVar** and **Tcl_SetVar2** procedures). *Proc* will be invoked
after the variable\'s value has been modified, but before the new value
of the variable has been returned. It may modify the value of the
variable to override the change and to determine the value actually
returned by the traced access. If it deletes the variable then the
traced access will return an empty string.

When array tracing has been specified, the trace procedure will be
invoked at the beginning of the array command implementation, before any
of the operations like get, set, or names have been invoked. The trace
procedure can modify the array elements with **Tcl_SetVar** and
**Tcl_SetVar2**.

When unset tracing has been specified, the trace procedure will be
invoked whenever the variable is destroyed. The traces will be called
after the variable has been completely unset.

# WHOLE-ARRAY TRACES

If a call to **Tcl_TraceVar** or **Tcl_TraceVar2** specifies the name of
an array variable without an index into the array, then the trace will
be set on the array as a whole. This means that *proc* will be invoked
whenever any element of the array is accessed in the ways specified by
*flags*. When an array is unset, a whole-array trace will be invoked
just once, with *name1* equal to the name of the array and *name2* NULL;
it will not be invoked once for each element.

# MULTIPLE TRACES

It is possible for multiple traces to exist on the same variable. When
this happens, all of the trace procedures will be invoked on each
access, in order from most-recently-created to least-recently-created.
When there exist whole-array traces for an array as well as traces on
individual elements, the whole-array traces are invoked before the
individual-element traces. If a read or write trace unsets the variable
then all of the unset traces will be invoked but the remainder of the
read and write traces will be skipped.

# ERROR RETURNS

Under normal conditions trace procedures should return NULL, indicating
successful completion. If *proc* returns a non-NULL value it signifies
that an error occurred. The return value must be a pointer to a static
character string containing an error message, unless (*exactly* one of)
the **TCL_TRACE_RESULT_DYNAMIC** and **TCL_TRACE_RESULT_OBJECT** flags
is set, which specify that the result is either a dynamic string (to be
released with **ckfree**) or a Tcl_Obj\* (cast to char\* and to be
released with **Tcl_DecrRefCount**) containing the error message. If a
trace procedure returns an error, no further traces are invoked for the
access and the traced access aborts with the given message. Trace
procedures can use this facility to make variables read-only, for
example (but note that the value of the variable will already have been
modified before the trace procedure is called, so the trace procedure
will have to restore the correct value).

The return value from *proc* is only used during read and write tracing.
During unset traces, the return value is ignored and all relevant trace
procedures will always be invoked.

# RESTRICTIONS

A trace procedure can be called at any time, even when there are
partially formed results stored in the interpreter. If the trace
procedure does anything that could damage this result (such as calling
**Tcl_Eval**) then it must use the **Tcl_SaveInterpState** and related
routines to save and restore the original state of the interpreter
before it returns.

# UNDEFINED VARIABLES

It is legal to set a trace on an undefined variable. The variable will
still appear to be undefined until the first time its value is set. If
an undefined variable is traced and then unset, the unset will fail with
an error but the trace procedure will still be invoked.

# TCL_TRACE_DESTROYED FLAG

In an unset callback to *proc*, the **TCL_TRACE_DESTROYED** bit is set
in *flags* if the trace is being removed as part of the deletion. Traces
on a variable are always removed whenever the variable is deleted; the
only time **TCL_TRACE_DESTROYED** is not set is for a whole-array trace
invoked when only a single element of an array is unset.

# TCL_INTERP_DESTROYED

When an interpreter is destroyed, unset traces are called for all of its
variables. The **TCL_INTERP_DESTROYED** bit will be set in the *flags*
argument passed to the trace procedures. Trace procedures must be
extremely careful in what they do if the **TCL_INTERP_DESTROYED** bit is
set. It is not safe for the procedures to invoke any Tcl procedures on
the interpreter, since its state is partially deleted. All that trace
procedures should do under these circumstances is to clean up and free
their own internal data structures.

# BUGS

Tcl does not do any error checking to prevent trace procedures from
misusing the interpreter during traces with **TCL_INTERP_DESTROYED**
set.

Array traces are not yet integrated with the Tcl **info exists**
command, nor is there Tcl-level access to array traces.

# SEE ALSO

trace(n)

# KEYWORDS

clientData, trace, variable
