\

# NAME

ledit - Replace elements of a list stored in variable

# SYNOPSIS

**ledit ***listVar first last *?*value value \...*?

\

# DESCRIPTION

The command fetches the list value in variable *listVar* and replaces
the elements in the range given by indices *first* to *last* (inclusive)
with the *value* arguments. The resulting list is then stored back in
*listVar* and returned as the result of the command.

Arguments *first* and *last* are index values specifying the first and
last elements of the range to replace. They are interpreted the same as
index values for the command **string index**, supporting simple index
arithmetic and indices relative to the end of the list. The index **0**
refers to the first element of the list, and **end** refers to the last
element of the list.

If either *first* or *last* is less than zero, it is considered to refer
to the position before the first element of the list. This allows
elements to be prepended.

If either *first* or *last* indicates a position greater than the index
of the last element of the list, it is treated as if it is an index one
greater than the last element. This allows elements to be appended.

If *last* is less than *first*, then any specified elements will be
inserted into the list before the element specified by *first* with no
elements being deleted.

The *value* arguments specify zero or more new elements to be added to
the list in place of those that were deleted. Each *value* argument will
become a separate element of the list. If no *value* arguments are
specified, then the elements between *first* and *last* are simply
deleted.

# EXAMPLES

Prepend to a list.

    set lst {c d e f g}
          → c d e f g
    ledit lst -1 -1 a b
          → a b c d e f g

Append to the list.

    ledit lst end+1 end+1 h i
          → a b c d e f g h i

Delete third and fourth elements.

    ledit lst 2 3
          → a b e f g h i

Replace two elements with three.

    ledit lst 2 3 x y z
          → a b x y z g h i
    set lst
          → a b x y z g h i

# SEE ALSO

list(n), lappend(n), lassign(n), lindex(n), linsert(n), llength(n),
lmap(n), lpop(n), lrange(n), lremove(n), lrepeat(n), lreplace(n),
lreverse(n), lsearch(n), lseq(n), lset(n), lsort(n), string(n)

# KEYWORDS

element, list, replace
