\

# NAME

Tcl_GetNumber, Tcl_GetNumberFromObj - get numeric value from Tcl value

# SYNOPSIS

    #include <tcl.h>

    #include <tclTomMath.h>

    int
    Tcl_GetNumber(interp, bytes, numBytes, clientDataPtr, typePtr)

    int
    Tcl_GetNumberFromObj(interp, objPtr, clientDataPtr, typePtr)

# ARGUMENTS

When non-NULL, error information is recorded here when the value is not
in any of the numeric formats recognized by Tcl.

Points to first byte of the string value to be examined.

The number of bytes, starting at *bytes*, that should be examined. If
**numBytes** is negative, then all bytes should be examined until the
first **NUL** byte terminates examination.

Points to space where a pointer value may be written through which a
numeric value is available to read.

Points to space where a value may be written reporting what type of
numeric storage is available to read.

A Tcl value to be examined.

\

# DESCRIPTION

These procedures enable callers to retrieve a numeric value from a Tcl
value in a numeric format recognized by Tcl.

Tcl recognizes many values as numbers. Several examples include:
**\"0\"**, **\" +1\"**, **\"-2 \"**, **\" 3 \"**, **\"0xdad1\"**,
**\"0d09\"**, **\"1_000_000\"**, **\"4.0\"**, **\"1e-7\"**, **\"NaN\"**,
or **\"Inf\"**. When built-in Tcl commands act on these values as
numbers, they are converted to a numeric representation for efficient
handling in C code. Tcl makes use of three C types to store these
representations: **double**, **Tcl_WideInt**, and **mp_int**. The
**double** type is provided by the C language standard. The
**Tcl_WideInt** type is declared in the Tcl header file, **tcl.h**, and
is equivalent to the C standard type **long long** on most platforms.
The **mp_int** type is declared in the header file **tclTomMath.h**, and
implemented by the LibTomMath multiple-precision integer library,
included with Tcl.

The routines **Tcl_GetNumber** and **Tcl_GetNumberFromObj** perform the
same function. They differ only in how the arguments present the Tcl
value to be examined. **Tcl_GetNumber** accepts a counted string value
in the arguments *bytes* and *numBytes* (or a **NUL**-terminated string
value when *numBytes* is negative). **Tcl_GetNumberFromObj** accepts the
Tcl value in *objPtr*.

Both routines examine the Tcl value and determine whether Tcl recognizes
it as a number. If not, both routines return **TCL_ERROR** and (when
*interp* is not NULL) record an error message and error code in
*interp*.

If Tcl does recognize the examined value as a number, both routines
return **TCL_OK**, and use the pointer arguments *clientDataPtr* and
*typePtr* (which may not be NULL) to report information the caller can
use to retrieve the numeric representation. Both routines write to
\**clientDataPtr* a pointer to the internal storage location where Tcl
holds the converted numeric value.

When the converted numeric value is stored as a **double**, a call to
math library routine **isnan** determines whether that value is not a
number (NaN). If so, both **Tcl_GetNumber** and **Tcl_GetNumberFromObj**
write the value **TCL_NUMBER_NAN** to \**typePtr*. If not, both routines
write the value **TCL_NUMBER_DOUBLE** to \**typePtr*. These routines
report different type values in these cases because
**Tcl_GetDoubleFromObj** raises an error on NaN values. For both
reported type values, the storage pointer may be cast to type **const
double \*** and the **double** numeric value may be read through it.

When the converted numeric value is stored as a **Tcl_WideInt**, both
**Tcl_GetNumber** and **Tcl_GetNumberFromObj** write the value
**TCL_NUMBER_INT** to \**typePtr*. The storage pointer may be cast to
type **const Tcl_WideInt \*** and the **Tcl_WideInt** numeric value may
be read through it.

When the converted numeric value is stored as an **mp_int**, both
**Tcl_GetNumber** and **Tcl_GetNumberFromObj** write the value
**TCL_NUMBER_BIG** to \**typePtr*. The storage pointer may be cast to
type **const mp_int \*** and the **mp_int** numeric value may be read
through it.

Future releases of Tcl might expand or revise the recognition of values
as numbers. If additional storage representations are adopted, these
routines will add new values to be written to \**typePtr* to identify
them. Callers should consider how they should react to unknown values
written to \**typePtr*.

When callers of these routines read numeric values through the reported
storage pointer, they are accessing memory that belongs to the Tcl
library. The Tcl library has the power to overwrite or free this memory.
The storage pointer reported by a call to **Tcl_GetNumber** or
**Tcl_GetNumberFromObj** should not be used after the same thread has
possibly returned control to the Tcl library. If longer term access to
the numeric value is needed, it should be copied into memory controlled
by the caller. Callers must not attempt to write through or free the
storage pointer.

# SEE ALSO

Tcl_GetDouble, Tcl_GetDoubleFromObj, Tcl_GetWideIntFromObj

# KEYWORDS

double, double value, double type, integer, integer value, integer type,
internal representation, value, value type, string representation
