# NAME

place - Geometry manager for fixed or rubber-sheet placement

# SYNOPSIS

**place ***option arg *?*arg \...*?

# DESCRIPTION

The placer is a geometry manager for Tk. It provides simple fixed
placement of windows, where you specify the exact size and location of
one window, called the *content*, within another window, called the
*container*. The placer also provides rubber-sheet placement, where you
specify the size and location of the content in terms of the dimensions
of the container, so that the content changes size and location in
response to changes in the size of the container. Lastly, the placer
allows you to mix these styles of placement so that, for example, the
content has a fixed width and height but is centered inside the
container.

**place ***window option value *?*option value \...*?

:   Arrange for the placer to manage the geometry of a content whose
    pathName is *window*. The remaining arguments consist of one or more
    *option-value* pairs that specify the way in which *window*\'s
    geometry is managed. *Option* may have any of the values accepted by
    the **place configure** command.

**place configure ***window *?*option*? ?*value option value \...*?

:   Query or modify the geometry options of the content given by
    *window*. If no *option* is specified, this command returns a list
    describing the available options (see **Tk_ConfigureInfo** for
    information on the format of this list). If *option* is specified
    with no *value*, then the command returns a list describing the one
    named option (this list will be identical to the corresponding
    sublist of the value returned if no *option* is specified). If one
    or more *option-value* pairs are specified, then the command
    modifies the given option(s) to have the given value(s); in this
    case the command returns an empty string.

    The following *option-value* pairs are supported:

    **-anchor ***where*

    :   *Where* specifies which point of *window* is to be positioned at
        the (x,y) location selected by the **-x**, **-y**, **-relx**,
        and **-rely** options. The anchor point is in terms of the outer
        area of *window* including its border, if any. Thus if *where*
        is **se** then the lower-right corner of *window*\'s border will
        appear at the given (x,y) location in the container. The anchor
        position defaults to **nw**.

    **-bordermode ***mode*

    :   *Mode* determines the degree to which borders within the
        container are used in determining the placement of the content.
        The default and most common value is **inside**. In this case
        the placer considers the area of the container to be the
        innermost area of the container, inside any border: an option of
        **-x 0** corresponds to an x-coordinate just inside the border
        and an option of **-relwidth 1.0** means *window* will fill the
        area inside the container\'s border.

        If *mode* is **outside** then the placer considers the area of
        the container to include its border; this mode is typically used
        when placing *window* outside its container, as with the options
        **-x 0 -y 0 -anchor ne**. Lastly, *mode* may be specified as
        **ignore**, in which case borders are ignored: the area of the
        container is considered to be its official X area, which
        includes any internal border but no external border. A
        bordermode of **ignore** is probably not very useful.

    **-height ***size*

    :   *Size* specifies the height for *window* in screen units (i.e.
        any of the forms accepted by **Tk_GetPixels**). The height will
        be the outer dimension of *window* including its border, if any.
        If *size* is an empty string, or if no **-height** or
        **-relheight** option is specified, then the height requested
        internally by the window will be used.

    **-in ***container*

    :   *Container* specifies the path name of the window relative to
        which *window* is to be placed. *Container* must either be
        *window*\'s parent or a descendant of *window*\'s parent. In
        addition, *container* and *window* must both be descendants of
        the same top-level window. These restrictions are necessary to
        guarantee that *window* is visible whenever *container* is
        visible. If this option is not specified then the other window
        defaults to *window*\'s parent.

    **-relheight ***size*

    :   *Size* specifies the height for *window*. In this case the
        height is specified as a floating-point number relative to the
        height of the container: 0.5 means *window* will be half as high
        as the container, 1.0 means *window* will have the same height
        as the container, and so on. If both **-height** and
        **-relheight** are specified for a content, their values are
        summed. For example, **-relheight 1.0 -height -2** makes the
        content 2 pixels shorter than the container.

    **-relwidth ***size*

    :   *Size* specifies the width for *window*. In this case the width
        is specified as a floating-point number relative to the width of
        the container: 0.5 means *window* will be half as wide as the
        container, 1.0 means *window* will have the same width as the
        container, and so on. If both **-width** and **-relwidth** are
        specified for a content, their values are summed. For example,
        **-relwidth 1.0 -width 5** makes the content 5 pixels wider than
        the container.

    **-relx ***location*

    :   *Location* specifies the x-coordinate within the container
        window of the anchor point for *window*. In this case the
        location is specified in a relative fashion as a floating-point
        number: 0.0 corresponds to the left edge of the container and
        1.0 corresponds to the right edge of the container. *Location*
        need not be in the range 0.0-1.0. If both **-x** and **-relx**
        are specified for a content then their values are summed. For
        example, **-relx 0.5 -x -2** positions the left edge of the
        content 2 pixels to the left of the center of its container.

    **-rely ***location*

    :   *Location* specifies the y-coordinate within the container
        window of the anchor point for *window*. In this case the value
        is specified in a relative fashion as a floating-point number:
        0.0 corresponds to the top edge of the container and 1.0
        corresponds to the bottom edge of the container. *Location* need
        not be in the range 0.0-1.0. If both **-y** and **-rely** are
        specified for a content then their values are summed. For
        example, **-rely 0.5 -x 3** positions the top edge of the
        content 3 pixels below the center of its container.

    **-width ***size*

    :   *Size* specifies the width for *window* in screen units (i.e.
        any of the forms accepted by **Tk_GetPixels**). The width will
        be the outer width of *window* including its border, if any. If
        *size* is an empty string, or if no **-width** or **-relwidth**
        option is specified, then the width requested internally by the
        window will be used.

    **-x ***location*

    :   *Location* specifies the x-coordinate within the container
        window of the anchor point for *window*. The location is
        specified in screen units (i.e. any of the forms accepted by
        **Tk_GetPixels**) and need not lie within the bounds of the
        container window.

    **-y ***location*

    :   *Location* specifies the y-coordinate within the container
        window of the anchor point for *window*. The location is
        specified in screen units (i.e. any of the forms accepted by
        **Tk_GetPixels**) and need not lie within the bounds of the
        container window.

    If the same value is specified separately with two different
    options, such as **-x** and **-relx**, then the most recent option
    is used and the older one is ignored.

**place forget ***window*

:   Causes the placer to stop managing the geometry of *window*. As a
    side effect of this command *window* will be unmapped so that it
    does not appear on the screen. If *window* is not currently managed
    by the placer then the command has no effect. This command returns
    an empty string.

**place info ***window*

:   Returns a list giving the current configuration of *window*. The
    list consists of *option-value* pairs in exactly the same form as
    might be specified to the **place configure** command.

**place slaves ***window*

:   Returns a list of all the content windows for which *window* is the
    container. If there is no content for *window* then an empty string
    is returned.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```

**place content ***window*

:   Synonym for **place slaves ***window*.

If the configuration of a window has been retrieved with **place info**,
that configuration can be restored later by first using **place forget**
to erase any existing information for the window and then invoking
**place configure** with the saved information.

# FINE POINTS

It is not necessary for the container window to be the parent of the
content window. This feature is useful in at least two situations.
First, for complex window layouts it means you can create a hierarchy of
subwindows whose only purpose is to assist in the layout of the parent.
The of the parent (i.e. the windows that are significant for the
application\'s user interface) can be children of the parent yet be
placed inside the windows of the geometry-management hierarchy. This
means that the path names of the do not reflect the geometry-management
hierarchy and users can specify options for the real children without
being aware of the structure of the geometry-management hierarchy.

A second reason for having a container different than the content\'s
parent is to tie two siblings together. For example, the placer can be
used to force a window always to be positioned centered just below one
of its siblings by specifying the configuration

    -in sibling -relx 0.5 -rely 1.0 -anchor n -bordermode outside

Whenever the sibling is repositioned in the future, the content will be
repositioned as well.

Unlike many other geometry managers (such as the packer) the placer does
not make any attempt to manipulate the geometry of the container windows
or the parents of content windows (i.e. it does not set their requested
sizes). To control the sizes of these windows, make them windows like
frames and canvases that provide configuration options for this purpose.

# EXAMPLE

Make the label occupy the middle bit of the toplevel, no matter how it
is resized:

    label .l -text "In the\nMiddle!" -bg black -fg white
    place .l -relwidth .3 -relx .35 -relheight .3 -rely .35

# SEE ALSO

grid(n), pack(n)

# KEYWORDS

geometry manager, height, location, container, place, rubber sheet,
content, width

<!---
Copyright (c) 1992 The Regents of the University of California
Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc
-->

