# NAME

pack - Geometry manager that packs around edges of cavity

# SYNOPSIS

**pack ***option arg *?*arg \...*?

# DESCRIPTION

The **pack** command is used to communicate with the packer, a geometry
manager that arranges the children of a parent by packing them in order
around the edges of the parent. The **pack** command can have any of
several forms, depending on the *option* argument:

**pack ***window *?*window \...*? ?*options*?

:   If the first argument to **pack** is a window name (any value
    starting with then the command is processed in the same way as
    **pack configure**.

**pack configure ***window *?*window \...*? ?*options*?

:   The arguments consist of the names of one or more content windows
    followed by pairs of arguments that specify how to manage the
    content. See **THE PACKER ALGORITHM** below for details on how the
    options are used by the packer. The following options are supported:

    **-after ***other*

    :   *Other* must the name of another window. Use its container as
        the container for the content, and insert the content just after
        *other* in the packing order.

    **-anchor ***anchor*

    :   *Anchor* must be a valid anchor position such as **n** or
        **sw**; it specifies where to position each content in its
        parcel. Defaults to **center**.

    **-before ***other*

    :   *Other* must the name of another window. Use its container as
        the container for the content, and insert the content just
        before *other* in the packing order.

    **-expand ***boolean*

    :   Specifies whether the content should be expanded to consume
        extra space in their container. *Boolean* may have any proper
        boolean value, such as **1** or **no**. Defaults to 0.

    **-fill ***style*

    :   If a content\'s parcel is larger than its requested dimensions,
        this option may be used to stretch the content. *Style* must
        have one of the following values:

        **none**

        :   Give the content its requested dimensions plus any internal
            padding requested with **-ipadx** or **-ipady**. This is the
            default.

        **x**

        :   Stretch the content horizontally to fill the entire width of
            its parcel (except leave external padding as specified by
            **-padx**).

        **y**

        :   Stretch the content vertically to fill the entire height of
            its parcel (except leave external padding as specified by
            **-pady**).

        **both**

        :   Stretch the content both horizontally and vertically.

    **-in ***container*

    :   Insert the window at the end of the packing order for the
        container window given by *container*.

    **-ipadx ***amount*

    :   *Amount* specifies how much horizontal internal padding to leave
        on each side of the content. *Amount* must be a valid screen
        distance, such as **2** or **.5c**. It defaults to 0.

    **-ipady ***amount*

    :   *Amount* specifies how much vertical internal padding to leave
        on each side of the content. *Amount* defaults to 0.

    **-padx ***amount*

    :   *Amount* specifies how much horizontal external padding to leave
        on each side of the content. *Amount* may be a list of two
        values to specify padding for left and right separately.
        *Amount* defaults to 0.

    **-pady ***amount*

    :   *Amount* specifies how much vertical external padding to leave
        on each side of the content. *Amount* may be a list of two
        values to specify padding for top and bottom separately.
        *Amount* defaults to 0.

    **-side ***side*

    :   Specifies which side of the container the content will be packed
        against. Must be **left**, **right**, **top**, or **bottom**.
        Defaults to **top**.

    If no **-in**, **-after** or **-before** option is specified then
    each of the content will be inserted at the end of the packing list
    for its parent unless it is already managed by the packer (in which
    case it will be left where it is). If one of these options is
    specified then all the content will be inserted at the specified
    point. If any of the content are already managed by the geometry
    manager then any unspecified options for them retain their previous
    values rather than receiving default values.

**pack forget ***window *?*window \...*?

:   Removes each of the *window*s from the packing order for its
    container and unmaps their windows. The content will no longer be
    managed by the packer.

**pack info ***window*

:   Returns a list whose elements are the current configuration state of
    the window given by *window* in the same option-value form that
    might be specified to **pack configure**. The first two elements of
    the list are where *container* is the window\'s container.

**pack propagate ***container* ?*boolean*?

:   If *boolean* has a true boolean value such as **1** or **on** then
    propagation is enabled for *container*, which must be a window name
    (see **GEOMETRY PROPAGATION** below). If *boolean* has a false
    boolean value then propagation is disabled for *container*. In
    either of these cases an empty string is returned. If *boolean* is
    omitted then the command returns **0** or **1** to indicate whether
    propagation is currently enabled for *container*. Propagation is
    enabled by default.

**pack slaves ***window*

:   Returns a list of all of the content windows in the packing order
    for *window*. The order of the content windows in the list is the
    same as their order in the packing order. If *window* has no content
    then an empty string is returned.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```

**pack content ***window*

:   Synonym for **pack slaves ***window*.

# THE PACKER ALGORITHM

For each container the packer maintains an ordered list of content
windows called the *packing list*. The **-in**, **-after**, and
**-before** configuration options are used to specify the container for
each content and the content\'s position in the packing list. If none of
these options is given for a content then the content is added to the
end of the packing list for its parent.

The packer arranges the content windows for a container by scanning the
packing list in order. At the time it processes each content, a
rectangular area within the container is still unallocated. This area is
called the *cavity*; for the first content it is the entire area of the
container.

For each content the packer carries out the following steps:

\[1\]

:   The packer allocates a rectangular *parcel* for the content along
    the side of the cavity given by the content\'s **-side** option. If
    the side is top or bottom then the width of the parcel is the width
    of the cavity and its height is the requested height of the content
    plus the **-ipady** and **-pady** options. For the left or right
    side the height of the parcel is the height of the cavity and the
    width is the requested width of the content plus the **-ipadx** and
    **-padx** options. The parcel may be enlarged further because of the
    **-expand** option (see **EXPANSION** below)

\[2\]

:   The packer chooses the dimensions of the content. The width will
    normally be the content\'s requested width plus twice its **-ipadx**
    option and the height will normally be the content\'s requested
    height plus twice its **-ipady** option. However, if the **-fill**
    option is **x** or **both** then the width of the content is
    expanded to fill the width of the parcel, minus twice the **-padx**
    option. If the **-fill** option is **y** or **both** then the height
    of the content is expanded to fill the width of the parcel, minus
    twice the **-pady** option.

\[3\]

:   The packer positions the content over its parcel. If the content is
    smaller than the parcel then the **-anchor** option determines where
    in the parcel the content will be placed. If **-padx** or **-pady**
    is non-zero, then the given amount of external padding will always
    be left between the content and the edges of the parcel.

Once a given content has been packed, the area of its parcel is
subtracted from the cavity, leaving a smaller rectangular cavity for the
next content. If a content does not use all of its parcel, the unused
space in the parcel will not be used by subsequent content. If the
cavity should become too small to meet the needs of a content then the
content will be given whatever space is left in the cavity. If the
cavity shrinks to zero size, then all remaining content on the packing
list will be unmapped from the screen until the container window becomes
large enough to hold them again.

## EXPANSION

If a container window is so large that there will be extra space left
over after all of its content have been packed, then the extra space is
distributed uniformly among all of the content for which the **-expand**
option is set. Extra horizontal space is distributed among the
expandable content whose **-side** is **left** or **right**, and extra
vertical space is distributed among the expandable content whose
**-side** is **top** or **bottom**.

## GEOMETRY PROPAGATION

The packer normally computes how large a container must be to just
exactly meet the needs of its content, and it sets the requested width
and height of the container to these dimensions. This causes geometry
information to propagate up through a window hierarchy to a top-level
window so that the entire sub-tree sizes itself to fit the needs of the
leaf windows. However, the **pack propagate** command may be used to
turn off propagation for one or more containers. If propagation is
disabled then the packer will not set the requested width and height of
the packer. This may be useful if, for example, you wish for a container
window to have a fixed size that you specify.

# RESTRICTIONS ON CONTAINER WINDOWS

The container for each content must either be the content\'s parent (the
default) or a descendant of the content\'s parent. This restriction is
necessary to guarantee that the content can be placed over any part of
its container that is visible without danger of the content being
clipped by its parent.

# PACKING ORDER

If the container for a content is not its parent then you must make sure
that the content is higher in the stacking order than the container.
Otherwise the container will obscure the content and it will appear as
if the content has not been packed correctly. The easiest way to make
sure the content is higher than the container is to create the container
window first: the most recently created window will be highest in the
stacking order. Or, you can use the **raise** and **lower** commands to
change the stacking order of either the container or the content.

# EXAMPLE

    # Make the widgets
    label .t -text "This widget is at the top"    -bg red
    label .b -text "This widget is at the bottom" -bg green
    label .l -text "Left\nHand\nSide"
    label .r -text "Right\nHand\nSide"
    text .mid
    .mid insert end "This layout is like Java's BorderLayout"
    # Lay them out
    pack .t   -side top    -fill x
    pack .b   -side bottom -fill x
    pack .l   -side left   -fill y
    pack .r   -side right  -fill y
    pack .mid -expand 1    -fill both

# SEE ALSO

grid(n), place(n)

# KEYWORDS

geometry manager, location, packer, parcel, propagation, size
