# NAME

Tcl_BackgroundException, Tcl_BackgroundError - report Tcl exception that
occurred in background processing

# SYNOPSIS

**#include \<tcl.h\>**

**Tcl_BackgroundException**(*interp, code*)

**Tcl_BackgroundError**(*interp*)

# ARGUMENTS

Interpreter in which the exception occurred.

The exceptional return code to be reported.

# DESCRIPTION

This procedure is typically invoked when a Tcl exception (any return
code other than TCL_OK) occurs during such as executing an event
handler. When such an exception occurs, the condition is reported to Tcl
or to a widget or some other C code, and there is not usually any
obvious way for that code to report the exception to the user. In these
cases the code calls **Tcl_BackgroundException** with an *interp*
argument identifying the interpreter in which the exception occurred,
and a *code* argument holding the return code value of the exception.
The state of the interpreter, including any error message in the
interpreter result, and the values of any entries in the return options
dictionary, is captured and saved. **Tcl_BackgroundException** then
arranges for the event loop to invoke at some later time the command
registered in that interpreter to handle background errors by the
**interp bgerror** command, passing the captured values as arguments.
The registered handler command is meant to report the exception in an
application-specific fashion. The handler command receives two
arguments, the result of the interp, and the return options of the
interp at the time the error occurred. If the application registers no
handler command, the default handler command will attempt to call
**bgerror** to report the error. If an error condition arises while
invoking the handler command, then **Tcl_BackgroundException** reports
the error itself by printing a message on the standard error file.

**Tcl_BackgroundException** does not invoke the handler command
immediately because this could potentially interfere with scripts that
are in process at the time the error occurred. Instead, it invokes the
handler command later as an idle callback.

It is possible for many background exceptions to accumulate before the
handler command is invoked. When this happens, each of the exceptions is
processed in order. However, if the handler command returns a break
exception, then all remaining error reports for the interpreter are
skipped.

The **Tcl_BackgroundError** routine is an older and simpler interface
useful when the exception code reported is **TCL_ERROR**. It is
equivalent to:

    Tcl_BackgroundException(interp, TCL_ERROR);

# KEYWORDS

background, bgerror, error, interp

<!---
Copyright (c) 1992-1994 The Regents of the University of California
Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc
-->

