# NAME

Tcl_DoWhenIdle, Tcl_CancelIdleCall - invoke a procedure when there are
no pending events

# SYNOPSIS

**#include \<tcl.h\>**

**Tcl_DoWhenIdle**(*proc, clientData*)

**Tcl_CancelIdleCall**(*proc, clientData*)

# ARGUMENTS

Procedure to invoke.

Arbitrary one-word value to pass to *proc*.

# DESCRIPTION

**Tcl_DoWhenIdle** arranges for *proc* to be invoked when the
application becomes idle. The application is considered to be idle when
**Tcl_DoOneEvent** has been called, could not find any events to handle,
and is about to go to sleep waiting for an event to occur. At this point
all pending **Tcl_DoWhenIdle** handlers are invoked. For each call to
**Tcl_DoWhenIdle** there will be a single call to *proc*; after *proc*
is invoked the handler is automatically removed. **Tcl_DoWhenIdle** is
only usable in programs that use **Tcl_DoOneEvent** to dispatch events.

*Proc* should have arguments and result that match the type
**Tcl_IdleProc**:

    typedef void Tcl_IdleProc(
            ClientData clientData);

The *clientData* parameter to *proc* is a copy of the *clientData*
argument given to **Tcl_DoWhenIdle**. Typically, *clientData* points to
a data structure containing application-specific information about what
*proc* should do.

**Tcl_CancelIdleCall** may be used to cancel one or more previous calls
to **Tcl_DoWhenIdle**: if there is a **Tcl_DoWhenIdle** handler
registered for *proc* and *clientData*, then it is removed without
invoking it. If there is more than one handler on the idle list that
refers to *proc* and *clientData*, all of the handlers are removed. If
no existing handlers match *proc* and *clientData* then nothing happens.

**Tcl_DoWhenIdle** is most useful in situations where (a) a piece of
work will have to be done but (b) it is possible that something will
happen in the near future that will change what has to be done or
require something different to be done. **Tcl_DoWhenIdle** allows the
actual work to be deferred until all pending events have been processed.
At this point the exact work to be done will presumably be known and it
can be done exactly once.

For example, **Tcl_DoWhenIdle** might be used by an editor to defer
display updates until all pending commands have been processed. Without
this feature, redundant redisplays might occur in some situations, such
as the processing of a command file.

# BUGS

At present it is not safe for an idle callback to reschedule itself
continuously. This will interact badly with certain features of Tk that
attempt to wait for all idle callbacks to complete. If you would like
for an idle callback to reschedule itself continuously, it is better to
use a timer handler with a zero timeout period.

# SEE ALSO

after(n), Tcl_CreateFileHandler(3), Tcl_CreateTimerHandler(3)

# KEYWORDS

callback, defer, idle callback

<!---
Copyright (c) 1990 The Regents of the University of California
Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc
-->

