# NAME

Tcl_OpenFileChannel, Tcl_OpenCommandChannel, Tcl_MakeFileChannel,
Tcl_GetChannel, Tcl_GetChannelNames, Tcl_GetChannelNamesEx,
Tcl_RegisterChannel, Tcl_UnregisterChannel, Tcl_DetachChannel,
Tcl_IsStandardChannel, Tcl_Close, Tcl_ReadChars, Tcl_Read, Tcl_GetsObj,
Tcl_Gets, Tcl_WriteObj, Tcl_WriteChars, Tcl_Write, Tcl_Flush, Tcl_Seek,
Tcl_Tell, Tcl_TruncateChannel, Tcl_GetChannelOption,
Tcl_SetChannelOption, Tcl_Eof, Tcl_InputBlocked, Tcl_InputBuffered,
Tcl_OutputBuffered, Tcl_Ungets, Tcl_ReadRaw, Tcl_WriteRaw - buffered I/O
facilities using channels

# SYNOPSIS

**#include \<tcl.h\>**

Tcl_Channel **Tcl_OpenFileChannel**(*interp, fileName, mode,
permissions*)

Tcl_Channel **Tcl_OpenCommandChannel**(*interp, argc, argv, flags*)

Tcl_Channel **Tcl_MakeFileChannel**(*handle, readOrWrite*)

Tcl_Channel **Tcl_GetChannel**(*interp, channelName, modePtr*)

int **Tcl_GetChannelNames**(*interp*)

int **Tcl_GetChannelNamesEx**(*interp, pattern*)

void **Tcl_RegisterChannel**(*interp, channel*)

int **Tcl_UnregisterChannel**(*interp, channel*)

int **Tcl_DetachChannel**(*interp, channel*)

int **Tcl_IsStandardChannel**(*channel*)

int **Tcl_Close**(*interp, channel*)

int **Tcl_ReadChars**(*channel, readObjPtr, charsToRead, appendFlag*)

int **Tcl_Read**(*channel, readBuf, bytesToRead*)

int **Tcl_GetsObj**(*channel, lineObjPtr*)

int **Tcl_Gets**(*channel, lineRead*)

int **Tcl_Ungets**(*channel, input, inputLen, addAtEnd*)

int **Tcl_WriteObj**(*channel, writeObjPtr*)

int **Tcl_WriteChars**(*channel, charBuf, bytesToWrite*)

int **Tcl_Write**(*channel, byteBuf, bytesToWrite*)

int **Tcl_ReadRaw**(*channel, readBuf, bytesToRead*)

int **Tcl_WriteRaw**(*channel, byteBuf, bytesToWrite*)

int **Tcl_Eof**(*channel*)

int **Tcl_Flush**(*channel*)

int **Tcl_InputBlocked**(*channel*)

int **Tcl_InputBuffered**(*channel*)

int **Tcl_OutputBuffered**(*channel*)

Tcl_WideInt **Tcl_Seek**(*channel, offset, seekMode*)

Tcl_WideInt **Tcl_Tell**(*channel*)

int **Tcl_TruncateChannel**(*channel, length*)

int **Tcl_GetChannelOption**(*interp, channel, optionName, optionValue*)

int **Tcl_SetChannelOption**(*interp, channel, optionName, newValue*)

# ARGUMENTS

Used for error reporting and to look up a channel registered in it.

The name of a local or network file.

Specifies how the file is to be accessed. May have any of the values
allowed for the *mode* argument to the Tcl **open** command.

POSIX-style permission flags such as 0644. If a new file is created,
these permissions will be set on the created file.

The number of elements in *argv*.

Arguments for constructing a command pipeline. These values have the
same meaning as the non-switch arguments to the Tcl **exec** command.

Specifies the disposition of the stdio handles in pipeline: OR-ed
combination of **TCL_STDIN**, **TCL_STDOUT**, **TCL_STDERR**, and
**TCL_ENFORCE_MODE**. If **TCL_STDIN** is set, stdin for the first child
in the pipe is the pipe channel, otherwise it is the same as the
standard input of the invoking process; likewise for **TCL_STDOUT** and
**TCL_STDERR**. If **TCL_ENFORCE_MODE** is not set, then the pipe can
redirect stdio handles to override the stdio handles for which
**TCL_STDIN**, **TCL_STDOUT** and **TCL_STDERR** have been set. If it is
set, then such redirections cause an error.

Operating system specific handle for I/O to a file. For Unix this is a
file descriptor, for Windows it is a HANDLE.

OR-ed combination of **TCL_READABLE** and **TCL_WRITABLE** to indicate
what operations are valid on *handle*.

The name of the channel.

Points at an integer variable that will receive an OR-ed combination of
**TCL_READABLE** and **TCL_WRITABLE** denoting whether the channel is
open for reading and writing.

The pattern to match on, passed to Tcl_StringMatch, or NULL.

A Tcl channel for input or output. Must have been the return value from
a procedure such as **Tcl_OpenFileChannel**.

A pointer to a Tcl value in which to store the characters read from the
channel.

The number of characters to read from the channel. If the channel\'s
encoding is **binary**, this is equivalent to the number of bytes to
read from the channel.

If non-zero, data read from the channel will be appended to the value.
Otherwise, the data will replace the existing contents of the value.

A buffer in which to store the bytes read from the channel.

The number of bytes to read from the channel. The buffer *readBuf* must
be large enough to hold this many bytes.

A pointer to a Tcl value in which to store the line read from the
channel. The line read will be appended to the current value of the
value.

A pointer to a Tcl dynamic string in which to store the line read from
the channel. Must have been initialized by the caller. The line read
will be appended to any data already in the dynamic string.

The input to add to a channel buffer.

Length of the input

Flag indicating whether the input should be added to the end or
beginning of the channel buffer.

A pointer to a Tcl value whose contents will be output to the channel.

A buffer containing the characters to output to the channel.

A buffer containing the bytes to output to the channel.

The number of bytes to consume from *charBuf* or *byteBuf* and output to
the channel.

How far to move the access point in the channel at which the next input
or output operation will be applied, measured in bytes from the position
given by *seekMode*. May be either positive or negative.

Relative to which point to seek; used with *offset* to calculate the new
access point for the channel. Legal values are **SEEK_SET**,
**SEEK_CUR**, and **SEEK_END**.

The (non-negative) length to truncate the channel the channel to.

The name of an option applicable to this channel, such as **-blocking**.
May have any of the values accepted by the **fconfigure** command.

Where to store the value of an option or a list of all options and their
values. Must have been initialized by the caller.

New value for the option given by *optionName*.

# DESCRIPTION

The Tcl channel mechanism provides a device-independent and
platform-independent mechanism for performing buffered input and output
operations on a variety of file, socket, and device types. The channel
mechanism is extensible to new channel types, by providing a low-level
channel driver for the new type; the channel driver interface is
described in the manual entry for **Tcl_CreateChannel**. The channel
mechanism provides a buffering scheme modeled after Unix\'s standard
I/O, and it also allows for nonblocking I/O on channels.

The procedures described in this manual entry comprise the C APIs of the
generic layer of the channel architecture. For a description of the
channel driver architecture and how to implement channel drivers for new
types of channels, see the manual entry for **Tcl_CreateChannel**.

# TCL_OPENFILECHANNEL

**Tcl_OpenFileChannel** opens a file specified by *fileName* and returns
a channel handle that can be used to perform input and output on the
file. This API is modeled after the **fopen** procedure of the Unix
standard I/O library. The syntax and meaning of all arguments is similar
to those given in the Tcl **open** command when opening a file. If an
error occurs while opening the channel, **Tcl_OpenFileChannel** returns
NULL and records a POSIX error code that can be retrieved with
**Tcl_GetErrno**. In addition, if *interp* is non-NULL,
**Tcl_OpenFileChannel** leaves an error message in *interp*\'s result
after any error. As of Tcl 8.4, the value-based API
**Tcl_FSOpenFileChannel** should be used in preference to
**Tcl_OpenFileChannel** wherever possible.

The newly created channel is not registered in the supplied interpreter;
to register it, use **Tcl_RegisterChannel**, described below. If one of
the standard channels, **stdin**, **stdout** or **stderr** was
previously closed, the act of creating the new channel also assigns it
as a replacement for the standard channel.

# TCL_OPENCOMMANDCHANNEL

**Tcl_OpenCommandChannel** provides a C-level interface to the functions
of the **exec** and **open** commands. It creates a sequence of
subprocesses specified by the *argv* and *argc* arguments and returns a
channel that can be used to communicate with these subprocesses. The
*flags* argument indicates what sort of communication will exist with
the command pipeline.

If the **TCL_STDIN** flag is set then the standard input for the first
subprocess will be tied to the channel: writing to the channel will
provide input to the subprocess. If **TCL_STDIN** is not set, then
standard input for the first subprocess will be the same as this
application\'s standard input. If **TCL_STDOUT** is set then standard
output from the last subprocess can be read from the channel; otherwise
it goes to this application\'s standard output. If **TCL_STDERR** is
set, standard error output for all subprocesses is returned to the
channel and results in an error when the channel is closed; otherwise it
goes to this application\'s standard error. If **TCL_ENFORCE_MODE** is
not set, then *argc* and *argv* can redirect the stdio handles to
override **TCL_STDIN**, **TCL_STDOUT**, and **TCL_STDERR**; if it is
set, then it is an error for argc and argv to override stdio channels
for which **TCL_STDIN**, **TCL_STDOUT**, and **TCL_STDERR** have been
set.

If an error occurs while opening the channel, **Tcl_OpenCommandChannel**
returns NULL and records a POSIX error code that can be retrieved with
**Tcl_GetErrno**. In addition, **Tcl_OpenCommandChannel** leaves an
error message in the interpreter\'s result. *interp* cannot be NULL.

The newly created channel is not registered in the supplied interpreter;
to register it, use **Tcl_RegisterChannel**, described below. If one of
the standard channels, **stdin**, **stdout** or **stderr** was
previously closed, the act of creating the new channel also assigns it
as a replacement for the standard channel.

# TCL_MAKEFILECHANNEL

**Tcl_MakeFileChannel** makes a **Tcl_Channel** from an existing,
platform-specific, file handle. The newly created channel is not
registered in the supplied interpreter; to register it, use
**Tcl_RegisterChannel**, described below. If one of the standard
channels, **stdin**, **stdout** or **stderr** was previously closed, the
act of creating the new channel also assigns it as a replacement for the
standard channel.

# TCL_GETCHANNEL

**Tcl_GetChannel** returns a channel given the *channelName* used to
create it with **Tcl_CreateChannel** and a pointer to a Tcl interpreter
in *interp*. If a channel by that name is not registered in that
interpreter, the procedure returns NULL. If the *modePtr* argument is
not NULL, it points at an integer variable that will receive an OR-ed
combination of **TCL_READABLE** and **TCL_WRITABLE** describing whether
the channel is open for reading and writing.

**Tcl_GetChannelNames** and **Tcl_GetChannelNamesEx** write the names of
the registered channels to the interpreter\'s result as a list value.
**Tcl_GetChannelNamesEx** will filter these names according to the
*pattern*. If *pattern* is NULL, then it will not do any filtering. The
return value is **TCL_OK** if no errors occurred writing to the result,
otherwise it is **TCL_ERROR**, and the error message is left in the
interpreter\'s result.

# TCL_REGISTERCHANNEL

**Tcl_RegisterChannel** adds a channel to the set of channels accessible
in *interp*. After this call, Tcl programs executing in that interpreter
can refer to the channel in input or output operations using the name
given in the call to **Tcl_CreateChannel**. After this call, the channel
becomes the property of the interpreter, and the caller should not call
**Tcl_Close** for the channel; the channel will be closed automatically
when it is unregistered from the interpreter.

Code executing outside of any Tcl interpreter can call
**Tcl_RegisterChannel** with *interp* as NULL, to indicate that it
wishes to hold a reference to this channel. Subsequently, the channel
can be registered in a Tcl interpreter and it will only be closed when
the matching number of calls to **Tcl_UnregisterChannel** have been
made. This allows code executing outside of any interpreter to safely
hold a reference to a channel that is also registered in a Tcl
interpreter.

This procedure interacts with the code managing the standard channels.
If no standard channels were initialized before the first call to
**Tcl_RegisterChannel**, they will get initialized by that call. See
**Tcl_StandardChannels** for a general treatise about standard channels
and the behavior of the Tcl library with regard to them.

# TCL_UNREGISTERCHANNEL

**Tcl_UnregisterChannel** removes a channel from the set of channels
accessible in *interp*. After this call, Tcl programs will no longer be
able to use the channel\'s name to refer to the channel in that
interpreter. If this operation removed the last registration of the
channel in any interpreter, the channel is also closed and destroyed.

Code not associated with a Tcl interpreter can call
**Tcl_UnregisterChannel** with *interp* as NULL, to indicate to Tcl that
it no longer holds a reference to that channel. If this is the last
reference to the channel, it will now be closed.
**Tcl_UnregisterChannel** is very similar to **Tcl_DetachChannel**
except that it will also close the channel if no further references to
it exist.

# TCL_DETACHCHANNEL

**Tcl_DetachChannel** removes a channel from the set of channels
accessible in *interp*. After this call, Tcl programs will no longer be
able to use the channel\'s name to refer to the channel in that
interpreter. Beyond that, this command has no further effect. It cannot
be used on the standard channels (**stdout**, **stderr**, **stdin**),
and will return **TCL_ERROR** if passed one of those channels.

Code not associated with a Tcl interpreter can call
**Tcl_DetachChannel** with *interp* as NULL, to indicate to Tcl that it
no longer holds a reference to that channel. If this is the last
reference to the channel, unlike **Tcl_UnregisterChannel**, it will not
be closed.

# TCL_ISSTANDARDCHANNEL

**Tcl_IsStandardChannel** tests whether a channel is one of the three
standard channels, **stdin**, **stdout** or **stderr**. If so, it
returns 1, otherwise 0.

No attempt is made to check whether the given channel or the standard
channels are initialized or otherwise valid.

# TCL_CLOSE

**Tcl_Close** destroys the channel *channel*, which must denote a
currently open channel. The channel should not be registered in any
interpreter when **Tcl_Close** is called. Buffered output is flushed to
the channel\'s output device prior to destroying the channel, and any
buffered input is discarded. If this is a blocking channel, the call
does not return until all buffered data is successfully sent to the
channel\'s output device. If this is a nonblocking channel and there is
buffered output that cannot be written without blocking, the call
returns immediately; output is flushed in the background and the channel
will be closed once all of the buffered data has been output. In this
case errors during flushing are not reported.

If the channel was closed successfully, **Tcl_Close** returns
**TCL_OK**. If an error occurs, **Tcl_Close** returns **TCL_ERROR** and
records a POSIX error code that can be retrieved with **Tcl_GetErrno**.
If the channel is being closed synchronously and an error occurs during
closing of the channel and *interp* is not NULL, an error message is
left in the interpreter\'s result.

Note: it is not safe to call **Tcl_Close** on a channel that has been
registered using **Tcl_RegisterChannel**; see the documentation for
**Tcl_RegisterChannel**, above, for details. If the channel has ever
been given as the **chan** argument in a call to
**Tcl_RegisterChannel**, you should instead use
**Tcl_UnregisterChannel**, which will internally call **Tcl_Close** when
all calls to **Tcl_RegisterChannel** have been matched by corresponding
calls to **Tcl_UnregisterChannel**.

# TCL_READCHARS AND TCL_READ

**Tcl_ReadChars** consumes bytes from *channel*, converting the bytes to
UTF-8 based on the channel\'s encoding and storing the produced data in
*readObjPtr*\'s string representation. The return value of
**Tcl_ReadChars** is the number of characters, up to *charsToRead*, that
were stored in *readObjPtr*. If an error occurs while reading, the
return value is -1 and **Tcl_ReadChars** records a POSIX error code that
can be retrieved with **Tcl_GetErrno**.

Setting *charsToRead* to **-1** will cause the command to read all
characters currently available (non-blocking) or everything until eof
(blocking mode).

The return value may be smaller than the value to read, indicating that
less data than requested was available. This is called a *short read*.
In blocking mode, this can only happen on an end-of-file. In nonblocking
mode, a short read can also occur if there is not enough input currently
available: **Tcl_ReadChars** returns a short count rather than waiting
for more data.

If the channel is in blocking mode, a return value of zero indicates an
end-of-file condition. If the channel is in nonblocking mode, a return
value of zero indicates either that no input is currently available or
an end-of-file condition. Use **Tcl_Eof** and **Tcl_InputBlocked** to
tell which of these conditions actually occurred.

**Tcl_ReadChars** translates the various end-of-line representations
into the canonical **\\n** internal representation according to the
current end-of-line recognition mode. End-of-line recognition and the
various platform-specific modes are described in the manual entry for
the Tcl **fconfigure** command.

As a performance optimization, when reading from a channel with the
encoding **binary**, the bytes are not converted to UTF-8 as they are
read. Instead, they are stored in *readObjPtr*\'s internal
representation as a byte-array value. The string representation of this
value will only be constructed if it is needed (e.g., because of a call
to **Tcl_GetStringFromObj**). In this way, byte-oriented data can be
read from a channel, manipulated by calling **Tcl_GetByteArrayFromObj**
and related functions, and then written to a channel without the expense
of ever converting to or from UTF-8.

**Tcl_Read** is similar to **Tcl_ReadChars**, except that it does not do
encoding conversions, regardless of the channel\'s encoding. It is
deprecated and exists for backwards compatibility with
non-internationalized Tcl extensions. It consumes bytes from *channel*
and stores them in *readBuf*, performing end-of-line translations on the
way. The return value of **Tcl_Read** is the number of bytes, up to
*bytesToRead*, written in *readBuf*. The buffer produced by **Tcl_Read**
is not null-terminated. Its contents are valid from the zeroth position
up to and excluding the position indicated by the return value.

**Tcl_ReadRaw** is the same as **Tcl_Read** but does not compensate for
stacking. While **Tcl_Read** (and the other functions in the API) always
get their data from the topmost channel in the stack the supplied
channel is part of, **Tcl_ReadRaw** does not. Thus this function is
**only** usable for transformational channel drivers, i.e. drivers used
in the middle of a stack of channels, to move data from the channel
below into the transformation.

# TCL_GETSOBJ AND TCL_GETS

**Tcl_GetsObj** consumes bytes from *channel*, converting the bytes to
UTF-8 based on the channel\'s encoding, until a full line of input has
been seen. If the channel\'s encoding is **binary**, each byte read from
the channel is treated as an individual Unicode character. All of the
characters of the line except for the terminating end-of-line
character(s) are appended to *lineObjPtr*\'s string representation. The
end-of-line character(s) are read and discarded.

If a line was successfully read, the return value is greater than or
equal to zero and indicates the number of bytes stored in *lineObjPtr*.
If an error occurs, **Tcl_GetsObj** returns -1 and records a POSIX error
code that can be retrieved with **Tcl_GetErrno**. **Tcl_GetsObj** also
returns -1 if the end of the file is reached; the **Tcl_Eof** procedure
can be used to distinguish an error from an end-of-file condition.

If the channel is in nonblocking mode, the return value can also be -1
if no data was available or the data that was available did not contain
an end-of-line character. When -1 is returned, the **Tcl_InputBlocked**
procedure may be invoked to determine if the channel is blocked because
of input unavailability.

**Tcl_Gets** is the same as **Tcl_GetsObj** except the resulting
characters are appended to the dynamic string given by *lineRead* rather
than a Tcl value.

# TCL_UNGETS

**Tcl_Ungets** is used to add data to the input queue of a channel, at
either the head or tail of the queue. The pointer *input* points to the
data that is to be added. The length of the input to add is given by
*inputLen*. A non-zero value of *addAtEnd* indicates that the data is to
be added at the end of queue; otherwise it will be added at the head of
the queue. If *channel* has a EOF set, no data will be added to the
input queue. **Tcl_Ungets** returns *inputLen* or -1 if an error occurs.

# TCL_WRITECHARS, TCL_WRITEOBJ, AND TCL_WRITE

**Tcl_WriteChars** accepts *bytesToWrite* bytes of character data at
*charBuf*. The UTF-8 characters in the buffer are converted to the
channel\'s encoding and queued for output to *channel*. If
*bytesToWrite* is negative, **Tcl_WriteChars** expects *charBuf* to be
null-terminated and it outputs everything up to the null.

Data queued for output may not appear on the output device immediately,
due to internal buffering. If the data should appear immediately, call
**Tcl_Flush** after the call to **Tcl_WriteChars**, or set the
**-buffering** option on the channel to **none**. If you wish the data
to appear as soon as a complete line is accepted for output, set the
**-buffering** option on the channel to **line** mode.

The return value of **Tcl_WriteChars** is a count of how many bytes were
accepted for output to the channel. This is either greater than zero to
indicate success or -1 to indicate that an error occurred. If an error
occurs, **Tcl_WriteChars** records a POSIX error code that may be
retrieved with **Tcl_GetErrno**.

Newline characters in the output data are translated to
platform-specific end-of-line sequences according to the
**-translation** option for the channel. This is done even if the
channel has no encoding.

**Tcl_WriteObj** is similar to **Tcl_WriteChars** except it accepts a
Tcl value whose contents will be output to the channel. The UTF-8
characters in *writeObjPtr*\'s string representation are converted to
the channel\'s encoding and queued for output to *channel*. As a
performance optimization, when writing to a channel with the encoding
**binary**, UTF-8 characters are not converted as they are written.
Instead, the bytes in *writeObjPtr*\'s internal representation as a
byte-array value are written to the channel. The byte-array
representation of the value will be constructed if it is needed. In this
way, byte-oriented data can be read from a channel, manipulated by
calling **Tcl_GetByteArrayFromObj** and related functions, and then
written to a channel without the expense of ever converting to or from
UTF-8.

**Tcl_Write** is similar to **Tcl_WriteChars** except that it does not
do encoding conversions, regardless of the channel\'s encoding. It is
deprecated and exists for backwards compatibility with
non-internationalized Tcl extensions. It accepts *bytesToWrite* bytes of
data at *byteBuf* and queues them for output to *channel*. If
*bytesToWrite* is negative, **Tcl_Write** expects *byteBuf* to be
null-terminated and it outputs everything up to the null.

**Tcl_WriteRaw** is the same as **Tcl_Write** but does not compensate
for stacking. While **Tcl_Write** (and the other functions in the API)
always feed their input to the topmost channel in the stack the supplied
channel is part of, **Tcl_WriteRaw** does not. Thus this function is
**only** usable for transformational channel drivers, i.e. drivers used
in the middle of a stack of channels, to move data from the
transformation into the channel below it.

# TCL_FLUSH

**Tcl_Flush** causes all of the buffered output data for *channel* to be
written to its underlying file or device as soon as possible. If the
channel is in blocking mode, the call does not return until all the
buffered data has been sent to the channel or some error occurred. The
call returns immediately if the channel is nonblocking; it starts a
background flush that will write the buffered data to the channel
eventually, as fast as the channel is able to absorb it.

The return value is normally **TCL_OK**. If an error occurs,
**Tcl_Flush** returns **TCL_ERROR** and records a POSIX error code that
can be retrieved with **Tcl_GetErrno**.

# TCL_SEEK

**Tcl_Seek** moves the access point in *channel* where subsequent data
will be read or written. Buffered output is flushed to the channel and
buffered input is discarded, prior to the seek operation.

**Tcl_Seek** normally returns the new access point. If an error occurs,
**Tcl_Seek** returns -1 and records a POSIX error code that can be
retrieved with **Tcl_GetErrno**. After an error, the access point may or
may not have been moved.

# TCL_TELL

**Tcl_Tell** returns the current access point for a channel. The
returned value is -1 if the channel does not support seeking.

# TCL_TRUNCATECHANNEL

**Tcl_TruncateChannel** truncates the file underlying *channel* to a
given *length* of bytes. It returns **TCL_OK** if the operation
succeeded, and **TCL_ERROR** otherwise.

# TCL_GETCHANNELOPTION

**Tcl_GetChannelOption** retrieves, in *optionValue*, the value of one
of the options currently in effect for a channel, or a list of all
options and their values. The *channel* argument identifies the channel
for which to query an option or retrieve all options and their values.
If *optionName* is not NULL, it is the name of the option to query; the
option\'s value is copied to the Tcl dynamic string denoted by
*optionValue*. If *optionName* is NULL, the function stores an
alternating list of option names and their values in *optionValue*,
using a series of calls to **Tcl_DStringAppendElement**. The various
preexisting options and their possible values are described in the
manual entry for the Tcl **fconfigure** command. Other options can be
added by each channel type. These channel type specific options are
described in the manual entry for the Tcl command that creates a channel
of that type; for example, the additional options for TCP based channels
are described in the manual entry for the Tcl **socket** command. The
procedure normally returns **TCL_OK**. If an error occurs, it returns
**TCL_ERROR** and calls **Tcl_SetErrno** to store an appropriate POSIX
error code.

# TCL_SETCHANNELOPTION

**Tcl_SetChannelOption** sets a new value *newValue* for an option
*optionName* on *channel*. The procedure normally returns **TCL_OK**. If
an error occurs, it returns **TCL_ERROR**; in addition, if *interp* is
non-NULL, **Tcl_SetChannelOption** leaves an error message in the
interpreter\'s result.

# TCL_EOF

**Tcl_Eof** returns a nonzero value if *channel* encountered an end of
file during the last input operation.

# TCL_INPUTBLOCKED

**Tcl_InputBlocked** returns a nonzero value if *channel* is in
nonblocking mode and the last input operation returned less data than
requested because there was insufficient data available. The call always
returns zero if the channel is in blocking mode.

# TCL_INPUTBUFFERED

**Tcl_InputBuffered** returns the number of bytes of input currently
buffered in the internal buffers for a channel. If the channel is not
open for reading, this function always returns zero.

# TCL_OUTPUTBUFFERED

**Tcl_OutputBuffered** returns the number of bytes of output currently
buffered in the internal buffers for a channel. If the channel is not
open for writing, this function always returns zero.

# PLATFORM ISSUES

The handles returned from **Tcl_GetChannelHandle** depend on the
platform and the channel type. On Unix platforms, the handle is always a
Unix file descriptor as returned from the **open** system call. On
Windows platforms, the handle is a file **HANDLE** when the channel was
created with **Tcl_OpenFileChannel**, **Tcl_OpenCommandChannel**, or
**Tcl_MakeFileChannel**. Other channel types may return a different type
of handle on Windows platforms.

# SEE ALSO

DString(3), fconfigure(n), filename(n), fopen(3), Tcl_CreateChannel(3)

# KEYWORDS

access point, blocking, buffered I/O, channel, channel driver, end of
file, flush, input, nonblocking, output, read, seek, write

<!---
Copyright (c) 1996-1997 Sun Microsystems, Inc
-->

