\

# NAME

Tcl_ParseCommand, Tcl_ParseExpr, Tcl_ParseBraces, Tcl_ParseQuotedString,
Tcl_ParseVarName, Tcl_ParseVar, Tcl_FreeParse, Tcl_EvalTokens,
Tcl_EvalTokensStandard - parse Tcl scripts and expressions

# SYNOPSIS

    #include <tcl.h>

    int
    Tcl_ParseCommand(interp, start, numBytes, nested, parsePtr)

    int
    Tcl_ParseExpr(interp, start, numBytes, parsePtr)

    int
    Tcl_ParseBraces(interp, start, numBytes, parsePtr, append, termPtr)

    int
    Tcl_ParseQuotedString(interp, start, numBytes, parsePtr, append, termPtr)

    int
    Tcl_ParseVarName(interp, start, numBytes, parsePtr, append)

    const char *
    Tcl_ParseVar(interp, start, termPtr)

    Tcl_FreeParse(usedParsePtr)

    Tcl_Obj *
    Tcl_EvalTokens(interp, tokenPtr, numTokens)

    int
    Tcl_EvalTokensStandard(interp, tokenPtr, numTokens)

# ARGUMENTS

For procedures other than **Tcl_FreeParse**, **Tcl_EvalTokens** and
**Tcl_EvalTokensStandard**, used only for error reporting; if NULL, then
no error messages are left after errors. For **Tcl_EvalTokens** and
**Tcl_EvalTokensStandard**, determines the context for evaluating the
script and also is used for error reporting; must not be NULL.

Pointer to first character in string to parse.

Number of bytes in string to parse, not including any terminating null
character. If less than 0 then the script consists of all characters
following *start* up to the first null character.

Non-zero means that the script is part of a command substitution so an
unquoted close bracket should be treated as a command terminator. If
zero, close brackets have no special meaning.

Non-zero means that *\*parsePtr* already contains valid tokens; the new
tokens should be appended to those already present. Zero means that
*\*parsePtr* is uninitialized; any information in it is ignored. This
argument is normally 0.

Points to structure to fill in with information about the parsed
command, expression, variable name, etc. Any previous information in
this structure is ignored, unless *append* is non-zero in a call to
**Tcl_ParseBraces**, **Tcl_ParseQuotedString**, or **Tcl_ParseVarName**.

If not NULL, points to a location where **Tcl_ParseBraces**,
**Tcl_ParseQuotedString**, and **Tcl_ParseVar** will store a pointer to
the character just after the terminating character (the close-brace, the
last character of the variable name, or the close-quote (respectively))
if the parse was successful.

Points to structure that was filled in by a previous call to
**Tcl_ParseCommand**, **Tcl_ParseExpr**, **Tcl_ParseVarName**, etc.

\

# DESCRIPTION

These procedures parse Tcl commands or portions of Tcl commands such as
expressions or references to variables. Each procedure takes a pointer
to a script (or portion thereof) and fills in the structure pointed to
by *parsePtr* with a collection of tokens describing the information
that was parsed. The procedures normally return **TCL_OK**. However, if
an error occurs then they return **TCL_ERROR**, leave an error message
in *interp*\'s result (if *interp* is not NULL), and leave nothing in
*parsePtr*.

**Tcl_ParseCommand** is a procedure that parses Tcl scripts. Given a
pointer to a script, it parses the first command from the script. If the
command was parsed successfully, **Tcl_ParseCommand** returns **TCL_OK**
and fills in the structure pointed to by *parsePtr* with information
about the structure of the command (see below for details). If an error
occurred in parsing the command then **TCL_ERROR** is returned, an error
message is left in *interp*\'s result, and no information is left at
*\*parsePtr*.

**Tcl_ParseExpr** parses Tcl expressions. Given a pointer to a script
containing an expression, **Tcl_ParseExpr** parses the expression. If
the expression was parsed successfully, **Tcl_ParseExpr** returns
**TCL_OK** and fills in the structure pointed to by *parsePtr* with
information about the structure of the expression (see below for
details). If an error occurred in parsing the command then **TCL_ERROR**
is returned, an error message is left in *interp*\'s result, and no
information is left at *\*parsePtr*.

**Tcl_ParseBraces** parses a string or command argument enclosed in
braces such as **{hello}** or **{string \\t with \\t tabs}** from the
beginning of its argument *start*. The first character of *start* must
be **{**. If the braced string was parsed successfully,
**Tcl_ParseBraces** returns **TCL_OK**, fills in the structure pointed
to by *parsePtr* with information about the structure of the string (see
below for details), and stores a pointer to the character just after the
terminating **}** in the location given by *\*termPtr*. If an error
occurs while parsing the string then **TCL_ERROR** is returned, an error
message is left in *interp*\'s result, and no information is left at
*\*parsePtr* or *\*termPtr*.

**Tcl_ParseQuotedString** parses a double-quoted string such as **\"sum
is \[expr {\$a+\$b}\]\"** from the beginning of the argument *start*.
The first character of *start* must be . If the double-quoted string was
parsed successfully, **Tcl_ParseQuotedString** returns **TCL_OK**, fills
in the structure pointed to by *parsePtr* with information about the
structure of the string (see below for details), and stores a pointer to
the character just after the terminating in the location given by
*\*termPtr*. If an error occurs while parsing the string then
**TCL_ERROR** is returned, an error message is left in *interp*\'s
result, and no information is left at *\*parsePtr* or *\*termPtr*.

**Tcl_ParseVarName** parses a Tcl variable reference such as **\$abc**
or **\$x(\[expr {\$index + 1}\])** from the beginning of its *start*
argument. The first character of *start* must be **\$**. If a variable
name was parsed successfully, **Tcl_ParseVarName** returns **TCL_OK**
and fills in the structure pointed to by *parsePtr* with information
about the structure of the variable name (see below for details). If an
error occurs while parsing the command then **TCL_ERROR** is returned,
an error message is left in *interp*\'s result (if *interp* is not
NULL), and no information is left at *\*parsePtr*.

**Tcl_ParseVar** parse a Tcl variable reference such as **\$abc** or
**\$x(\[expr {\$index + 1}\])** from the beginning of its *start*
argument. The first character of *start* must be **\$**. If the variable
name is parsed successfully, **Tcl_ParseVar** returns a pointer to the
string value of the variable. If an error occurs while parsing, then
NULL is returned and an error message is left in *interp*\'s result.

The information left at *\*parsePtr* by **Tcl_ParseCommand**,
**Tcl_ParseExpr**, **Tcl_ParseBraces**, **Tcl_ParseQuotedString**, and
**Tcl_ParseVarName** may include dynamically allocated memory. If these
five parsing procedures return **TCL_OK** then the caller must invoke
**Tcl_FreeParse** to release the storage at *\*parsePtr*. These
procedures ignore any existing information in *\*parsePtr* (unless
*append* is non-zero), so if repeated calls are being made to any of
them then **Tcl_FreeParse** must be invoked once after each call.

**Tcl_EvalTokensStandard** evaluates a sequence of parse tokens from a
Tcl_Parse structure. The tokens typically consist of all the tokens in a
word or all the tokens that make up the index for a reference to an
array variable. **Tcl_EvalTokensStandard** performs the substitutions
requested by the tokens and concatenates the resulting values. The
return value from **Tcl_EvalTokensStandard** is a Tcl completion code
with one of the values **TCL_OK**, **TCL_ERROR**, **TCL_RETURN**,
**TCL_BREAK**, or **TCL_CONTINUE**, or possibly some other integer value
originating in an extension. In addition, a result value or error
message is left in *interp*\'s result; it can be retrieved using
**Tcl_GetObjResult**.

**Tcl_EvalTokens** differs from **Tcl_EvalTokensStandard** only in the
return convention used: it returns the result in a new Tcl_Obj. The
reference count of the value returned as result has been incremented, so
the caller must invoke **Tcl_DecrRefCount** when it is finished with the
value. If an error or other exception occurs while evaluating the tokens
(such as a reference to a non-existent variable) then the return value
is NULL and an error message is left in *interp*\'s result. The use of
**Tcl_EvalTokens** is deprecated.

# TCL_PARSE STRUCTURE

**Tcl_ParseCommand**, **Tcl_ParseExpr**, **Tcl_ParseBraces**,
**Tcl_ParseQuotedString**, and **Tcl_ParseVarName** return parse
information in two data structures, Tcl_Parse and Tcl_Token:

    typedef struct Tcl_Parse {
        const char *commentStart;
        int commentSize;
        const char *commandStart;
        int commandSize;
        int numWords;
        Tcl_Token *tokenPtr;
        int numTokens;
        ...
    } Tcl_Parse;

    typedef struct Tcl_Token {
        int type;
        const char *start;
        int size;
        int numComponents;
    } Tcl_Token;

The first five fields of a Tcl_Parse structure are filled in only by
**Tcl_ParseCommand**. These fields are not used by the other parsing
procedures.

**Tcl_ParseCommand** fills in a Tcl_Parse structure with information
that describes one Tcl command and any comments that precede the
command. If there are comments, the *commentStart* field points to the
**\#** character that begins the first comment and *commentSize*
indicates the number of bytes in all of the comments preceding the
command, including the newline character that terminates the last
comment. If the command is not preceded by any comments, *commentSize*
is 0. **Tcl_ParseCommand** also sets the *commandStart* field to point
to the first character of the first word in the command (skipping any
comments and leading space) and *commandSize* gives the total number of
bytes in the command, including the character pointed to by
*commandStart* up to and including the newline, close bracket, or
semicolon character that terminates the command. The *numWords* field
gives the total number of words in the command.

All parsing procedures set the remaining fields, *tokenPtr* and
*numTokens*. The *tokenPtr* field points to the first in an array of
Tcl_Token structures that describe the components of the entity being
parsed. The *numTokens* field gives the total number of tokens present
in the array. Each token contains four fields. The *type* field selects
one of several token types that are described below. The *start* field
points to the first character in the token and the *size* field gives
the total number of characters in the token. Some token types, such as
**TCL_TOKEN_WORD** and **TCL_TOKEN_VARIABLE**, consist of several
component tokens, which immediately follow the parent token; the
*numComponents* field describes how many of these there are. The *type*
field has one of the following values:

**TCL_TOKEN_WORD**

:   This token ordinarily describes one word of a command but it may
    also describe a quoted or braced string in an expression. The token
    describes a component of the script that is the result of
    concatenating together a sequence of subcomponents, each described
    by a separate subtoken. The token starts with the first non-blank
    character of the component (which may be a double-quote or open
    brace) and includes all characters in the component up to but not
    including the space, semicolon, close bracket, close quote, or close
    brace that terminates the component. The *numComponents* field
    counts the total number of sub-tokens that make up the word,
    including sub-tokens of **TCL_TOKEN_VARIABLE** and **TCL_TOKEN_BS**
    tokens.

**TCL_TOKEN_SIMPLE_WORD**

:   This token has the same meaning as **TCL_TOKEN_WORD**, except that
    the word is guaranteed to consist of a single **TCL_TOKEN_TEXT**
    sub-token. The *numComponents* field is always 1.

**TCL_TOKEN_EXPAND_WORD**

:   This token has the same meaning as **TCL_TOKEN_WORD**, except that
    the command parser notes this word began with the expansion prefix
    **{\*}**, indicating that after substitution, the list value of this
    word should be expanded to form multiple arguments in command
    evaluation. This token type can only be created by Tcl_ParseCommand.

**TCL_TOKEN_TEXT**

:   The token describes a range of literal text that is part of a word.
    The *numComponents* field is always 0.

**TCL_TOKEN_BS**

:   The token describes a backslash sequence such as **\\n** or
    **\\0xA3**. The *numComponents* field is always 0.

**TCL_TOKEN_COMMAND**

:   The token describes a command whose result must be substituted into
    the word. The token includes the square brackets that surround the
    command. The *numComponents* field is always 0 (the nested command
    is not parsed; call **Tcl_ParseCommand** recursively if you want to
    see its tokens).

**TCL_TOKEN_VARIABLE**

:   The token describes a variable substitution, including the **\$**,
    variable name, and array index (if there is one) up through the
    close parenthesis that terminates the index. This token is followed
    by one or more additional tokens that describe the variable name and
    array index. If *numComponents* is 1 then the variable is a scalar
    and the next token is a **TCL_TOKEN_TEXT** token that gives the
    variable name. If *numComponents* is greater than 1 then the
    variable is an array: the first sub-token is a **TCL_TOKEN_TEXT**
    token giving the array name and the remaining sub-tokens are
    **TCL_TOKEN_TEXT**, **TCL_TOKEN_BS**, **TCL_TOKEN_COMMAND**, and
    **TCL_TOKEN_VARIABLE** tokens that must be concatenated to produce
    the array index. The *numComponents* field includes nested
    sub-tokens that are part of **TCL_TOKEN_VARIABLE** tokens in the
    array index.

**TCL_TOKEN_SUB_EXPR**

:   The token describes one subexpression of an expression (or an entire
    expression). A subexpression may consist of a value such as an
    integer literal, variable substitution, or parenthesized
    subexpression; it may also consist of an operator and its operands.
    The token starts with the first non-blank character of the
    subexpression up to but not including the space, brace, close-paren,
    or bracket that terminates the subexpression. This token is followed
    by one or more additional tokens that describe the subexpression. If
    the first sub-token after the **TCL_TOKEN_SUB_EXPR** token is a
    **TCL_TOKEN_OPERATOR** token, the subexpression consists of an
    operator and its token operands. If the operator has no operands,
    the subexpression consists of just the **TCL_TOKEN_OPERATOR** token.
    Each operand is described by a **TCL_TOKEN_SUB_EXPR** token.
    Otherwise, the subexpression is a value described by one of the
    token types **TCL_TOKEN_WORD**, **TCL_TOKEN_TEXT**,
    **TCL_TOKEN_BS**, **TCL_TOKEN_COMMAND**, **TCL_TOKEN_VARIABLE**, and
    **TCL_TOKEN_SUB_EXPR**. The *numComponents* field counts the total
    number of sub-tokens that make up the subexpression; this includes
    the sub-tokens for any nested **TCL_TOKEN_SUB_EXPR** tokens.

**TCL_TOKEN_OPERATOR**

:   The token describes one operator of an expression such as **&&** or
    **hypot**. A **TCL_TOKEN_OPERATOR** token is always preceded by a
    **TCL_TOKEN_SUB_EXPR** token that describes the operator and its
    operands; the **TCL_TOKEN_SUB_EXPR** token\'s *numComponents* field
    can be used to determine the number of operands. A binary operator
    such as **\*** is followed by two **TCL_TOKEN_SUB_EXPR** tokens that
    describe its operands. A unary operator like **-** is followed by a
    single **TCL_TOKEN_SUB_EXPR** token for its operand. If the operator
    is a math function such as **log10**, the **TCL_TOKEN_OPERATOR**
    token will give its name and the following **TCL_TOKEN_SUB_EXPR**
    tokens will describe its operands; if there are no operands (as with
    **rand**), no **TCL_TOKEN_SUB_EXPR** tokens follow. There is one
    trinary operator, **?**, that appears in if-then-else subexpressions
    such as *x***?***y***:***z*; in this case, the **?**
    **TCL_TOKEN_OPERATOR** token is followed by three
    **TCL_TOKEN_SUB_EXPR** tokens for the operands *x*, *y*, and *z*.
    The *numComponents* field for a **TCL_TOKEN_OPERATOR** token is
    always 0.

After **Tcl_ParseCommand** returns, the first token pointed to by the
*tokenPtr* field of the Tcl_Parse structure always has type
**TCL_TOKEN_WORD** or **TCL_TOKEN_SIMPLE_WORD** or
**TCL_TOKEN_EXPAND_WORD**. It is followed by the sub-tokens that must be
concatenated to produce the value of that word. The next token is the
**TCL_TOKEN_WORD** or **TCL_TOKEN_SIMPLE_WORD** of
**TCL_TOKEN_EXPAND_WORD** token for the second word, followed by
sub-tokens for that word, and so on until all *numWords* have been
accounted for.

After **Tcl_ParseExpr** returns, the first token pointed to by the
*tokenPtr* field of the Tcl_Parse structure always has type
**TCL_TOKEN_SUB_EXPR**. It is followed by the sub-tokens that must be
evaluated to produce the value of the expression. Only the token
information in the Tcl_Parse structure is modified: the *commentStart*,
*commentSize*, *commandStart*, and *commandSize* fields are not modified
by **Tcl_ParseExpr**.

After **Tcl_ParseBraces** returns, the array of tokens pointed to by the
*tokenPtr* field of the Tcl_Parse structure will contain a single
**TCL_TOKEN_TEXT** token if the braced string does not contain any
backslash-newlines. If the string does contain backslash-newlines, the
array of tokens will contain one or more **TCL_TOKEN_TEXT** or
**TCL_TOKEN_BS** sub-tokens that must be concatenated to produce the
value of the string. If the braced string was just **{}** (that is, the
string was empty), the single **TCL_TOKEN_TEXT** token will have a
*size* field containing zero; this ensures that at least one token
appears to describe the braced string. Only the token information in the
Tcl_Parse structure is modified: the *commentStart*, *commentSize*,
*commandStart*, and *commandSize* fields are not modified by
**Tcl_ParseBraces**.

After **Tcl_ParseQuotedString** returns, the array of tokens pointed to
by the *tokenPtr* field of the Tcl_Parse structure depends on the
contents of the quoted string. It will consist of one or more
**TCL_TOKEN_TEXT**, **TCL_TOKEN_BS**, **TCL_TOKEN_COMMAND**, and
**TCL_TOKEN_VARIABLE** sub-tokens. The array always contains at least
one token; for example, if the argument *start* is empty, the array
returned consists of a single **TCL_TOKEN_TEXT** token with a zero
*size* field. Only the token information in the Tcl_Parse structure is
modified: the *commentStart*, *commentSize*, *commandStart*, and
*commandSize* fields are not modified.

After **Tcl_ParseVarName** returns, the first token pointed to by the
*tokenPtr* field of the Tcl_Parse structure always has type
**TCL_TOKEN_VARIABLE**. It is followed by the sub-tokens that make up
the variable name as described above. The total length of the variable
name is contained in the *size* field of the first token. As in
**Tcl_ParseExpr**, only the token information in the Tcl_Parse structure
is modified by **Tcl_ParseVarName**: the *commentStart*, *commentSize*,
*commandStart*, and *commandSize* fields are not modified.

All of the character pointers in the Tcl_Parse and Tcl_Token structures
refer to characters in the *start* argument passed to
**Tcl_ParseCommand**, **Tcl_ParseExpr**, **Tcl_ParseBraces**,
**Tcl_ParseQuotedString**, and **Tcl_ParseVarName**.

There are additional fields in the Tcl_Parse structure after the
*numTokens* field, but these are for the private use of
**Tcl_ParseCommand**, **Tcl_ParseExpr**, **Tcl_ParseBraces**,
**Tcl_ParseQuotedString**, and **Tcl_ParseVarName**; they should not be
referenced by code outside of these procedures.

# KEYWORDS

backslash substitution, braces, command, expression, parse, token,
variable substitution
