\

# NAME

oo::singleton - a class that does only allows one instance of itself

# SYNOPSIS

    package require tcl::oo

    oo::singleton method ?arg ...?

# CLASS HIERARCHY

    oo::object
       → oo::class
           → oo::singleton

\

# DESCRIPTION

Singleton classes are classes that only permit at most one instance of
themselves to exist. They unexport the **create** and
**createWithNamespace** methods entirely, and override the **new**
method so that it only makes a new instance if there is no existing
instance. It is not recommended to inherit from a singleton class;
singleton-ness is *not* inherited. It is not recommended that a
singleton class\'s constructor take any arguments.

Instances have their** destroy** method overridden with a method that
always returns an error in order to discourage destruction of the
object, but destruction remains possible if strictly necessary (e.g., by
destroying the class or using **rename** to delete it). They also have a
(non-exported) **\<cloned\>** method defined on them that similarly
always returns errors to make attempts to use the singleton instance
with **oo::copy** fail.

## CONSTRUCTOR

The **oo::singleton** class does not define an explicit constructor;
this means that it is effectively the same as the constructor of the
**oo::class** class.

## DESTRUCTOR

The **oo::singleton** class does not define an explicit destructor;
destroying an instance of it is just like destroying an ordinary class
(and will destroy the singleton object).

## EXPORTED METHODS

*cls ***new **?*arg \...*?

:   This returns the current instance of the singleton class, if one
    exists, and creates a new instance only if there is no existing
    instance. The additional arguments, *arg \...*, are only used if a
    new instance is actually manufactured; that construction is via the
    **oo::class** class\'s **new** method.

    This is an override of the behaviour of a superclass\'s method with
    an identical call signature to the superclass\'s implementation.

## NON-EXPORTED METHODS

The **oo::singleton** class explicitly states that **create** and
**createWithNamespace** are unexported; callers should not assume that
they have control over either the name or the namespace name of the
singleton instance.

# EXAMPLE

This example demonstrates that there is only one instance even though
the **new** method is called three times.

    oo::singleton create Highlander {
        method say {} {
            puts "there can be only one"
        }
    }

    set h1 [Highlander new]
    set h2 [Highlander new]
    if {$h1 eq $h2} {
        puts "equal objects"    → prints "equal objects"
    }
    set h3 [Highlander new]
    if {$h1 eq $h3} {
        puts "equal objects"    → prints "equal objects"
    }

Note that the name of the instance of the singleton is not guaranteed to
be anything in particular.

# SEE ALSO

oo::class(n)

# KEYWORDS

class, metaclass, object, single instance
