# NAME

socket - Open a TCP network connection

# SYNOPSIS

**socket **?*options*? *host port*

**socket** **-server ***command* ?*options*? *port*

# DESCRIPTION

This command opens a network socket and returns a channel identifier
that may be used in future invocations of commands like **read**,
**puts** and **flush**. At present only the TCP network protocol is
supported over IPv4 and IPv6; future releases may include support for
additional protocols. The **socket** command may be used to open either
the client or server side of a connection, depending on whether the
**-server** switch is specified.

Note that the default encoding for *all* sockets is the system encoding,
as returned by **encoding system**. Most of the time, you will need to
use **chan configure** to alter this to something else, such as *utf-8*
(ideal for communicating with other Tcl processes) or *iso8859-1*
(useful for many network protocols, especially the older ones).

# CLIENT SOCKETS

If the **-server** option is not specified, then the client side of a
connection is opened and the command returns a channel identifier that
can be used for both reading and writing. *Port* and *host* specify a
port to connect to; there must be a server accepting connections on this
port. *Port* is an integer port number (or service name, where supported
and understood by the host operating system) and *host* is either a
domain-style name such as **www.tcl.tk** or a numerical IPv4 or IPv6
address such as **127.0.0.1** or **2001:DB8::1**. Use *localhost* to
refer to the host on which the command is invoked.

The following options may also be present before *host* to specify
additional information about the connection:

**-myaddr*** addr*

:   *Addr* gives the domain-style name or numerical IP address of the
    client-side network interface to use for the connection. This option
    may be useful if the client machine has multiple network interfaces.
    If the option is omitted then the client-side interface will be
    chosen by the system software.

**-myport*** port*

:   *Port* specifies an integer port number (or service name, where
    supported and understood by the host operating system) to use for
    the client\'s side of the connection. If this option is omitted, the
    client\'s port number will be chosen at random by the system
    software.

**-async**

:   This option will cause the client socket to be connected
    asynchronously. This means that the socket will be created
    immediately but may not yet be connected to the server, when the
    call to **socket** returns.

    When a **gets** or **flush** is done on the socket before the
    connection attempt succeeds or fails, if the socket is in blocking
    mode, the operation will wait until the connection is completed or
    fails. If the socket is in nonblocking mode and a **gets** or
    **flush** is done on the socket before the connection attempt
    succeeds or fails, the operation returns immediately and
    **fblocked** on the socket returns 1. Synchronous client sockets may
    be switched (after they have connected) to operating in asynchronous
    mode using:

        chan configure chan -blocking 0

    See the **chan configure** command for more details.

    The Tcl event loop should be running while an asynchronous
    connection is in progress, because it may have to do several
    connection attempts in the background. Running the event loop also
    allows you to set up a writable channel event on the socket to get
    notified when the asynchronous connection has succeeded or failed.
    See the **vwait** and the **chan** commands for more details on the
    event loop and channel events.

    The **chan configure** option **-connecting** may be used to check
    if the connect is still running. To verify a successful connect, the
    option **-error** may be checked when **-connecting** returned 0.

    Operation without the event queue requires at the moment calls to
    **chan configure** to advance the internal state machine.

# SERVER SOCKETS

If the **-server** option is specified then the new socket will be a
server that listens on the given *port* (either an integer or a service
name, where supported and understood by the host operating system; if
*port* is zero, the operating system will allocate a free port to the
server socket which may be discovered by using **chan configure** to
read the **-sockname** option). If the host supports both, IPv4 and
IPv6, the socket will listen on both address families. Tcl will
automatically accept connections to the given port. For each connection
Tcl will create a new channel that may be used to communicate with the
client. Tcl then invokes *command* (properly a command prefix list, see
the **EXAMPLES** below) with three additional arguments: the name of the
new channel, the address, in network address notation, of the client\'s
host, and the client\'s port number.

The following additional option may also be specified before *port*:

**-myaddr*** addr*

:   *Addr* gives the domain-style name or numerical IP address of the
    server-side network interface to use for the connection. This option
    may be useful if the server machine has multiple network interfaces.
    If the option is omitted then the server socket is bound to the
    wildcard address so that it can accept connections from any
    interface. If *addr* is a domain name that resolves to multiple IP
    addresses that are available on the local machine, the socket will
    listen on all of them.

Server channels cannot be used for input or output; their sole use is to
accept new client connections. The channels created for each incoming
client connection are opened for input and output. Closing the server
channel shuts down the server so that no new connections will be
accepted; however, existing connections will be unaffected.

Server sockets depend on the Tcl event mechanism to find out when new
connections are opened. If the application does not enter the event
loop, for example by invoking the **vwait** command or calling the C
procedure **Tcl_DoOneEvent**, then no connections will be accepted.

If *port* is specified as zero, the operating system will allocate an
unused port for use as a server socket. The port number actually
allocated may be retrieved from the created server socket using the
**chan configure** command to retrieve the **-sockname** option as
described below.

# CONFIGURATION OPTIONS

The **chan configure** command can be used to query several readonly
configuration options for socket channels:

**-error**

:   This option gets the current error status of the given socket. This
    is useful when you need to determine if an asynchronous connect
    operation succeeded. If there was an error, the error message is
    returned. If there was no error, an empty string is returned.

    Note that the error status is reset by the read operation; this
    mimics the underlying getsockopt(SO_ERROR) call.

**-sockname**

:   For client sockets (including the channels that get created when a
    client connects to a server socket) this option returns a list of
    three elements, the address, the host name and the port number for
    the socket. If the host name cannot be computed, the second element
    is identical to the address, the first element of the list.

    For server sockets this option returns a list of a multiple of three
    elements each group of which have the same meaning as described
    above. The list contains more than one group when the server socket
    was created without **-myaddr** or with the argument to **-myaddr**
    being a domain name that resolves multiple IP addresses that are
    local to the invoking host.

**-peername**

:   This option is not supported by server sockets. For client and
    accepted sockets, this option returns a list of three elements;
    these are the address, the host name and the port to which the peer
    socket is connected or bound. If the host name cannot be computed,
    the second element of the list is identical to the address, its
    first element.

**-connecting**

:   This option is not supported by server sockets. For client sockets,
    this option returns 1 if an asyncroneous connect is still in
    progress, 0 otherwise.

# EXAMPLES

Here is a very simple time server:

    proc Server {startTime channel clientaddr clientport} {
        puts "Connection from $clientaddr registered"
        set now [clock seconds]
        puts $channel [clock format $now]
        puts $channel "[expr {$now - $startTime}] since start"
        close $channel
    }

    socket -server [list Server [clock seconds]] 9900
    vwait forever

And here is the corresponding client to talk to the server and extract
some information:

    set server localhost
    set sockChan [socket $server 9900]
    gets $sockChan line1
    gets $sockChan line2
    close $sockChan
    puts "The time on $server is $line1"
    puts "That is [lindex $line2 0]s since the server started"

# HISTORY

Support for IPv6 was added in Tcl 8.6.

# SEE ALSO

chan(n), flush(n), open(n), read(n)

# KEYWORDS

asynchronous I/O, bind, channel, connection, domain name, host, network
address, socket, tcp

<!---
Copyright (c) 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc
Copyright (c) 1998-1999 Scriptics Corporation
-->

