\

# NAME

Tcl_Main, Tcl_MainEx, Tcl_MainExW, Tcl_SetStartupScript,
Tcl_GetStartupScript, Tcl_SetMainLoop - main program, startup script,
and event loop definition for Tcl-based applications

# SYNOPSIS

    #include <tcl.h>

    Tcl_Main(argc, argv, appInitProc)

    Tcl_MainEx(argc, charargv, appInitProc, interp)

    Tcl_MainExW(argc, wideargv, appInitProc, interp)

    Tcl_SetStartupScript(path, encoding)

    Tcl_Obj *
    Tcl_GetStartupScript(encodingPtr)

    Tcl_SetMainLoop(mainLoopProc)

# ARGUMENTS

Number of elements in *argv*.

Array of strings containing command-line arguments. On Windows, when
using -DUNICODE, the parameter type changes to wchar_t \*.

As argv, but does not change type to wchar_t.

As argv, but type is always wchar_t.

Address of an application-specific initialization procedure. The value
for this argument is usually **Tcl_AppInit**.

Name of file to use as startup script, or NULL.

Encoding of file to use as startup script, or NULL.

If non-NULL, location to write a copy of the (const char \*) pointing to
the encoding name.

Address of an application-specific event loop procedure.

Already created Tcl Interpreter.

\

# DESCRIPTION

**Tcl_Main** can serve as the main program for Tcl-based shell
applications. A is a program like tclsh or wish that supports both
interactive interpretation of Tcl and evaluation of a script contained
in a file given as a command line argument. **Tcl_Main** is offered as a
convenience to developers of shell applications, so they do not have to
reproduce all of the code for proper initialization of the Tcl library
and interactive shell operation. Other styles of embedding Tcl in an
application are not supported by **Tcl_Main**. Those must be achieved by
calling lower level functions in the Tcl library directly.

The **Tcl_Main** function has been offered by the Tcl library since
release Tcl 7.4. In older releases of Tcl, the Tcl library itself
defined a function **main**, but that lacks flexibility of embedding
style and having a function **main** in a library (particularly a shared
library) causes problems on many systems. Having **main** in the Tcl
library would also make it hard to use Tcl in C++ programs, since C++
programs must have special C++ **main** functions.

Normally each shell application contains a small **main** function that
does nothing but invoke **Tcl_Main**. **Tcl_Main** then does all the
work of creating and running a **tclsh**-like application.

**Tcl_Main** is not provided by the public interface of Tcl\'s stub
library. Programs that call **Tcl_Main** must be linked against the
standard Tcl library. Extensions (stub-enabled or not) are not intended
to call **Tcl_Main**.

**Tcl_Main** is not thread-safe. It should only be called by a single
main thread of a multi-threaded application. This restriction is not a
problem with normal use described above.

**Tcl_Main** and therefore all applications based upon it, like
**tclsh**, use **Tcl_GetStdChannel** to initialize the standard channels
to their default values. See **Tcl_StandardChannels** for more
information.

**Tcl_Main** supports two modes of operation, depending on whether the
filename and encoding of a startup script has been established. The
routines **Tcl_SetStartupScript** and **Tcl_GetStartupScript** are the
tools for controlling this configuration of **Tcl_Main**.

**Tcl_SetStartupScript** registers the value *path* as the name of the
file for **Tcl_Main** to evaluate as its startup script. The value
*encoding* is Tcl\'s name for the encoding used to store the text in
that file. A value of **NULL** for *encoding* is a signal to use the
system encoding. A value of **NULL** for *path* erases any existing
registration so that **Tcl_Main** will not evaluate any startup script.

**Tcl_GetStartupScript** queries the registered file name and encoding
set by the most recent **Tcl_SetStartupScript** call in the same thread.
The stored file name is returned, and the stored encoding name is
written to space pointed to by *encodingPtr*, when that is not NULL.

The file name and encoding values managed by the routines
**Tcl_SetStartupScript** and **Tcl_GetStartupScript** are stored
per-thread. Although the storage and retrieval functions of these
routines work in any thread, only those calls in the same main thread as
**Tcl_Main** can have any influence on it.

The caller of **Tcl_Main** may call **Tcl_SetStartupScript** first to
establish its desired startup script. If **Tcl_Main** finds that no such
startup script has been established, it consults the first few arguments
in *argv*. If they match ?**-encoding ***name*? *fileName*, where
*fileName* does not begin with the character *-*, then *fileName* is
taken to be the name of a file containing a *startup script*, and *name*
is taken to be the name of the encoding of the contents of that file.
**Tcl_Main** then calls **Tcl_SetStartupScript** with these values.

**Tcl_Main** then defines in its main interpreter the Tcl variables
*argc*, *argv*, *argv0*, and *tcl_interactive*, as described in the
documentation for **tclsh**.

When it has finished its own initialization, but before it processes
commands, **Tcl_Main** calls the procedure given by the *appInitProc*
argument. This procedure provides a for the application to perform its
own initialization of the interpreter created by **Tcl_Main**, such as
defining application-specific commands. The application initialization
routine might also call **Tcl_SetStartupScript** to (re-)set the file
and encoding to be used as a startup script. The procedure must have an
interface that matches the type **Tcl_AppInitProc**:

    typedef int Tcl_AppInitProc(
            Tcl_Interp *interp);

*AppInitProc* is almost always a pointer to **Tcl_AppInit**; for more
details on this procedure, see the documentation for **Tcl_AppInit**.

When the *appInitProc* is finished, **Tcl_Main** calls
**Tcl_GetStartupScript** to determine what startup script has been
requested, if any. If a startup script has been provided, **Tcl_Main**
attempts to evaluate it. Otherwise, interactive mode begins with
examination of the variable *tcl_rcFileName* in the main interpreter. If
that variable exists and holds the name of a readable file, the contents
of that file are evaluated in the main interpreter. Then interactive
operations begin, with prompts and command evaluation results written to
the standard output channel, and commands read from the standard input
channel and then evaluated. The prompts written to the standard output
channel may be customized by defining the Tcl variables *tcl_prompt1*
and *tcl_prompt2* as described in the documentation for **tclsh**. The
prompts and command evaluation results are written to the standard
output channel only if the Tcl variable *tcl_interactive* in the main
interpreter holds a non-zero integer value.

**Tcl_SetMainLoop** allows setting an event loop procedure to be run.
This allows, for example, Tk to be dynamically loaded and set its event
loop. The event loop will run following the startup script. If you are
in interactive mode, setting the main loop procedure will cause the
prompt to become fileevent based and then the loop procedure is called.
When the loop procedure returns in interactive mode, interactive
operation will continue. The main loop procedure must have an interface
that matches the type **Tcl_MainLoopProc**:

    typedef void Tcl_MainLoopProc(void);

**Tcl_Main** does not return. Normally a program based on **Tcl_Main**
will terminate when the **exit** command is evaluated. In interactive
mode, if an EOF or channel error is encountered on the standard input
channel, then **Tcl_Main** itself will evaluate the **exit** command
after the main loop procedure (if any) returns. In non-interactive mode,
after **Tcl_Main** evaluates the startup script, and the main loop
procedure (if any) returns, **Tcl_Main** will also evaluate the **exit**
command.

# SEE ALSO

tclsh(1), Tcl_GetStdChannel(3), Tcl_StandardChannels(3), Tcl_AppInit(3),
exit(n), encoding(n)

# KEYWORDS

application-specific initialization, command-line arguments, main
program
